32233054
2020 Oct
Background:In unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), methods to predict patients at increased risk of progression are required.Purpose:To investigate the feasibility of radiomics model in predicting early progression of unresectable HCC after transcatheter arterial chemoembolization (TACE) therapy using preoperative multiparametric magnetic resonance imaging (MP-MRI).Study type:Retrospective.Population:A total of 84 patients with BCLC B stage HCC from one medical center. According to the modified response evaluation criteria in solid tumors, patients who progressed at 6 months after TACE therapy were assigned as the progressive disease (PD) group (n = 32). Patients whose MRI was performed on four devices were divided into a training cohort (n = 67). Patients whose MRI was performed on other than the previous four devices were used as the testing set (n = 17).Field strength/sequence:3.0T, 1.5T axial T2 -weighted imaging (T2 WI), diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI, b = 0, 500 s/mm2 ), and apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) ASSESSMENT: PD was confirmed via imaging studies with MRI. Risk factors, including age, alpha fetoprotein (AFP), size, and radiomic-related features of PD were assessed. In addition, the discrimination ability of each radiomics signature was tested on an independent testing set.Statistical tests:The area under the receiver-operator characteristic (ROC) curve (AUC) was used to evaluate the predictive accuracy of the radiomic signature in both the training and testing sets. The results indicated that the MP-MRI model achieved the greatest benefit.Results:In the testing set, the model based on DWI features presented an AUC of (b = 0, 0.786; b = 500, 0.729), followed by T2 WI features (0.729) and ADC (0.714). The AUC of the MP-MRI signature was increased to 0.800 compared to any single MRI signature. The multivariate logistic analysis identified the radiomics signature as independent parameters of PD, while clinical information such as age, AFP, size, etc., had no significance in the PD group.Data conclusion:Preoperative MP-MRI has the potential to predict the outcome of TACE therapy for unresectable HCC. In addition, these image features may be complementary to the current staging systems of HCC patients.Level of evidence:2.Technical efficacy stage:3. J. Magn. Reson. Imaging 2020;52:1083-1090.
hepatocellular carcinoma; multiparametric MRI; radiomics; treatment prediction; tumor progression.
