32407813
2020 Oct
Background & aims:Neutrophils are one of the most abundant components in human hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and have been shown to play important roles in regulating disease progression. However, neutrophils are very short-lived cells in circulation, and mechanisms regulating their accumulation and functions in HCC are not yet fully understood.Methods:Monocytes were purified from non-tumor or paired tumor tissues of patients with HCC, and their production of neutrophil-attracting chemokines was evaluated. Mechanisms regulating the expression of CXCL2/8 by tumor monocytes, and the role of tumor monocyte-derived chemokines and cytokines in modulating neutrophil accumulation and functions were studied with both ex vivo analyses and in vitro experiments.Results:Monocyte-derived CXCL2 and CXCL8 were major factors in regulating the recruitment of neutrophils into tumor milieus. These chemokines, in addition to tumor-derived soluble factors, could inhibit apoptosis and sustain survival of neutrophils, thus leading to neutrophil accumulation in tumor tissues. Moreover, monocyte-derived TNF-α acted synergistically with tumor-derived soluble factors to induce the production of the pro-metastasis factor OSM by neutrophils. Further, the glycolytic switch in tumor-infiltrating monocytes mediated their production of CXCL2 and CXCL8 via the PFKFB3-NF-κB signaling pathway. Accordingly, levels of PFKFB3, CXCL2/CXCL8 production in monocytes and infiltration of OSM-producing neutrophils were positively correlated in human HCC tissues.Conclusions:Our results unveiled a previously unappreciated link between monocytes and neutrophils in human HCC, identifying possible targets that could be therapeutically exploited in the future.Lay summary:Neutrophils constitute a major but poorly understood component of human hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Herein, we unveil a novel mechanism by which metabolic switching in monocytes promotes the accumulation of neutrophils in the tumors of patients with HCC. Both monocyte-produced chemokines and signals from the tumor microenvironment promote the production of the pro-metastatic factor OSM by neutrophils. These data identify potential targets for immune-based anticancer therapies for HCC.
CXCL2; CXCL8; Cancer; Glycolysis; NF-κB; Neutrophils; PFKFB3; Tumor-associated monocytes.
