32559695
2020 Oct
Cylindrospermopsin (CYN) is an emerging cyanotoxin increasingly being found in freshwater cyanobacterial blooms worldwide. Humans and animals are exposed to CYN through the consumption of contaminated water and food as well as occupational and recreational water activities; therefore, it represents a potential health threat. It exhibits genotoxic effects in metabolically active test systems, thus it is considered as pro-genotoxic. In the present study, the advanced 3D cell model developed from human hepatocellular carcinoma (HepG2) cells was used for the evaluation of CYN cyto-/genotoxic activity. Spheroids were formed by forced floating method and were cultured for three days under static conditions prior to exposure to CYN (0.125, 0.25 and 0.5 μg/mL) for 72 h. CYN influence on spheroid growth was measured daily and cell survival was determined by MTS assay and live/dead staining. The influence on cell proliferation, cell cycle alterations and induction of DNA damage (γH2AX) was determined using flow cytometry. Further, the expression of selected genes (qPCR) involved in the metabolism of xenobiotics, proliferation, DNA damage response, apoptosis and oxidative stress was studied. Results revealed that CYN dose-dependently reduced the size of spheroids and affected cell division by arresting HepG2 cells in G1 phase of the cell cycle. No induction of DNA double strand breaks compared to control was determined at applied conditions. The analysis of gene expression revealed that CYN significantly deregulated genes encoding phase I (CYP1A1, CYP1A2, CYP3A4, ALDH3A) and II (NAT1, NAT2, SULT1B1, SULT1C2, UGT1A1, UGT2B7) enzymes as well as genes involved in cell proliferation (PCNA, TOP2α), apoptosis (BBC3) and DNA damage response (GADD45a, CDKN1A, ERCC4). The advanced 3D HepG2 cell model due to its more complex structure and improved cellular interactions provides more physiologically relevant information and more predictive data for human exposure, and can thus contribute to more reliable genotoxicity assessment of chemicals including cyanotoxins.
3D cell model; Cell cycle; Cylindrospermopsin; Cytotoxic; Gene expression; Genotoxic.
