32614605
2020 Oct
Objectives: Fufang Banmao (FFBM) capsule, a type of Chinese medicinal formulation, has decades of history in treating hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). This retrospective study aimed to observe the effect of FFBM capsules on the 6-month survival of patients with advanced HCC and Vp3-4 portal vein tumor thrombosis (PVTT) who received supportive therapy alone. Design: In total, 320 HCC/Vp3-4 PVTT patients underwent treatment with supportive therapy, of whom 95 took FFBM capsules and were treated with supportive therapy (FFBM group) and 225 received supportive therapy alone (control group). Comparisons of the 6-month overall survival (OS) rate of the two groups were performed. Propensity score matching (PSM) was used to match the characteristics between individuals in the two groups. A nomogram was built based on independent predictive factors for OS. Results: Cox multivariate analysis revealed that hepatic encephalopathy, aspartate transaminase (AST) and γ-glutamyl transpeptidase levels, Child-Pugh class, prothrombin time, α-fetoprotein level, largest tumor diameter, and use of FFBM capsules were independent predictive factors of OS. Variceal bleeding, alanine transaminase, AST, total bilirubin, and Barcelona Clinic for Liver Cancer stage were different at baseline in the FFBM and control groups. Analysis revealed no significant adverse effects or toxicities relevant to the medications. After PSM (1:1), 95 patient pairs were analyzed as FFBM versus control. The OS probability was remarkably higher for patients in the FFBM group than in those in the control group at 6 months (p < 0.0001). The median survival time was 4 months in the FFBM group and 2.2 months in the control group. Kaplan-Meier analysis showed significant statistical differences in the 6-month OS rates in the patients with total nomogram scores ≥84 (p < 0.0001). Conclusions: Given the satisfying survival outcomes, the results suggested that FFBM capsules should be administered to patients with HCC/Vp3-4 PVTT in the high-risk group (score ≥84). FFBM capsules have the potential for improving patient survival time in those with advanced HCC and Vp3-4 PVTT who receive supportive therapy alone, especially those in the high-risk group (score ≥84).
Traditional Chinese Medicinal formulation; hepatocellular carcinoma; integrative therapy; portal vein tumor thrombosis; survival.
