32621953
2020 Oct 28
Ethnopharmacological relevance:Green tea is the most ancient and popular beverage worldwide and its main constituent epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG) has a potential role in the management of cancer through the modulation of cell signaling pathways. However, EGCG is frangible to oxidation and exhibits low lipid solubility and bioavailability, and we synthesized a derivative of EGCG in an attempt to overcome these limitations.Aim of the study:The anthracycline antibiotic daunorubicin (DNR) is a potent anticancer agent. However, its severe cardiotoxic limits its clinical efficacy. Human carbonyl reductase 1 (CBR1) is one of the most effective human reductases for producing hydroxyl metabolites and thus may be involved in increasing the cardiotoxicity and decreasing the antineoplastic effect of anthracycline antibiotics. Accordingly, in this study, we investigated the co-therapeutic effect of Y6, a novel and potent adjuvant obtained by optimization of the structure of EGCG.Material and methods:The cellular concentrations of DNR and its metabolite DNRol were measured by HPLC to determine the effects of EGCG and Y6 on the inhibition of DNRol formation. The cytotoxic effects of EGCG and Y6 were tested by MTT assay in order to identify non-toxic concentrations of them. To understand their antitumor and cardioprotective mechanisms, hypoxia-inducible factor-1α (HIF-1α) and CBR1 protein expression was measured via Western blotting and immunohistochemical staining while gene expression was analyzed using RT-PCR. Moreover, PI3K/AKT and MEK/ERK signaling pathways were analyzed via Western blotting. HepG2 xenograft model was used to detect the effects of EGCG and Y6 on the antitumor activity and cardiotoxicity of DNR in vivo. Finally, to obtain further insight into the interactions of Y6 and EGCG with HIF-1α and CBR1, we performed a molecular modeling.Results:Y6(10 μg/ml or 55 mg/kg) decreased the expression of HIF-1α and CBR1 at both the mRNA and protein levels during combined drug therapy in vitro as well as in vivo, thereby inhibiting formation of the metabolite DNRol from DNR, with the mechanisms being related to PI3K/AKT and MEK/ERK signaling inhibition. In a human carcinoma xenograft model established with subcutaneous HepG2 cells, Y6(55 mg/kg) enhanced the antitumor effect and reduced the cardiotoxicity of DNR more effectively than EGCG(40 mg/kg).Conclusions:Y6 has the ability to inhibit CBR1 expression through the coordinate inhibition of PI3K/AKT and MEK/ERK signaling, then synergistically enhances the antitumor effect and reduces the cardiotoxicity of DNR.
5,3′,4′,3″,4″,5″-6-O-ethyl-EGCG (Y6); Antitumor effect; Cardiotoxicity; Daunorubicin (DNR); Epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG); Human carbonyl reductase 1 (CBR1).
