32675193
2020 Oct
In-depth coverage of proteomic analysis could enhance our understanding to the mechanism of the protein functions. Unfortunately, many highly hydrophobic proteins and low-abundance proteins, which play critical roles in signaling networks, are easily lost during sample preparation, mainly attributed to the fact that very few extractants can simultaneously satisfy the requirements on strong solubilizing ability to membrane proteins and good enzyme compatibility. Thus, it is urgent to screen out ideal extractant from the huge compound libraries in a fast and effective way. Herein, by investigating the interior mechanism of extractants on the membrane proteins solubilization and trypsin compatibility, a molecular dynamics simulation system was established as complement to the experimental procedure to narrow down the scope of candidates for proteomics analysis. The simulation data shows that the van der Waals interaction between cation group of ionic liquid and membrane protein is the dominant factor in determining protein solubilization. In combination with the experimental data, 1-dodecyl-3-methylimidazolium chloride (C12Im-Cl) is on the shortlist for the suitable candidates from comprehensive aspects. Inspired by the advantages of C12Im-Cl, an ionic liquid-based filter-aided sample preparation (i-FASP) method was developed. Using this strategy, over 3,300 proteins were confidently identified from 103 HeLa cells (∼100 ng proteins) in a single run, an improvement of 53% over the conventional FASP method. Then the i-FASP method was further successfully applied to the label-free relative quantitation of human liver cancer and para-carcinoma tissues with obviously improved accuracy, reproducibility and coverage than the commonly used urea-based FASP method. The above results demonstrated that the i-FASP method could be performed as a versatile tool for the in-depth coverage proteomic analysis of biological samples.
HPLC; Molecular dynamics simulation; deep coverage proteome analysis; ionic liquid; liver cancer; mass spectrometry; molecular dynamics*; omics; quantification.
