32771331
2020 Oct
Although female fertility maintenance technology (FFMT) provides an effective option for preserving fertility in patients with cancer suffering from fertility loss due to cancer treatment, previous studies have shown that the technique has certain potential risks and requires an assessment of the health status of the offspring since FFMT may lead to glucose metabolism disorder in offspring mice. The present animal study examined the glucose metabolism of adult mice offspring born from ovarian tissue cryopreservation and orthotopic allotransplantation. The mice were divided into three groups: normal, fresh ovary transplantation, and cryopreserved ovary transplantation. We recorded fasting blood glucose, glucose tolerance, and fasting serum insulin level for six months. Liver DNA, RNA, and proteins were extracted to detect the interaction between DNA methylation and Grb10 expression and insulin signaling pathway factors such as P-IGF1R, P-IRS2, P-AKT, and Grb10. Female recipient mice that received FFMT could successfully give birth after mating. The average litter size and total litter size of the cryopreserved and fresh groups showed marked differences compared with the normal group. Compared with the normal group, the fasting blood glucose and fasting serum insulin levels were higher in the cryopreserved and fresh groups. The mRNA and protein expressions of Grb10 were higher in the fresh and cryopreserved groups. Compared with the normal group, the DNA methylation status of four of the 11 sites of the Grb10 promoter was lower in the cryopreserved group. Grb10 overexpression inhibited the downstream phosphorylation protein factor expression (p-IGF-1R, p-IRS2, and p-Akt) of the IGF-1R signaling pathway. Female fertility maintenance technology (FFMT), including ovarian tissue cryopreservation (OTC), and orthotopic allotransplantation techniques might lead to glucose metabolism disorders in offspring mice.
DNA methylation; Epigenetic modification; Growth factor receptor-binding protein 10; Ovarian vitrification.
