33006026
2020 Oct 2
Background:Glutathione can reduce the oxidative stress by converting the unstable to stable molecules and its status in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is correlated with tumor growth and metastasis. Glutathione S-transferase Pi (GSTP1) is reported to detoxify the xenobiotic substrates by catalyzing their conjugation to reduced glutathione (GSH) and its over-expression was demonstrated in the early stages of HCC, while loss of GSTP1 has been suggested to increase the risk of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) damage and mutation. The aim of this study is to assess the relationship of GSTP1 polymorphism Ile105Val (rs1695 A > G) with HCC risk, and to investigate the oxidative stress status of HCC patients by measuring the antioxidant glutathione (GSH) levels. This study was conducted on 99 newly diagnosed HCC patients and 80 apparently healthy individuals as a normal control group. All participants were subjected to the measurement of plasma GSH levels according to Ellman's method, and polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) for the detection of GSTP1 polymorphismIle105Val (rs1695 A > G).Results:The occurrence of either the mutant homozygous or the mutant heterozygous genotype of GSTP1 was significantly higher in HCC patients, while the occurrence of the wild genotype was significantly higher among the normal control subjects. Mutant GSTP1 genotype, older age, male gender, and high serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) were associated with increased risk of development of HCC. The best sensitivity, specificity, PPV (positive predictive value), NPV (negative predictive value), and overall diagnostic performance for plasma GSH at a cutoff level of 2003.5 μM/mg were 57.6%, 52.5%, 60%, and 40%. The area under the curve for GSH was 0.562.Conclusion:Mutant GSTP1 genotype was an independent prognostic factor for increased HCC risk which can be used in a risk assessment model for HCC. Plasma GSH presents insufficient sensitivity and specificity for HCC.
GSTP1; Glutathione; HCC.
