33011992
2020 Oct 4.</span
Purpose:In clinics, only iodine- and barium-based contrast agents are currently used for contrast-enhanced x-ray computed tomography (CT). Recently, the introduction of new photon-counting (PC) detectors increased the interest in developing new contrast agents based on heavier elements. These elements may provide more contrast and spectral information compared to iodine and barium thanks to their k-edges at higher energies. In this paper, the potential of high-Z elements in contrast-enhanced CT was evaluated for different patient sizes and x-ray spectra using a PC detector.Methods:An adult liver phantom with five high-Z element solutions (iodine, gadolinium, ytterbium, tungsten, and bismuth) was scanned with a whole-body photon-counting computed tomography (PCCT) prototype. For each element, the contrast-to-noise ratio at unit concentration and at unit dose (CNRCD) was evaluated in low threshold images ( T 0 = 20 keV ) as function of the tube voltage (80, 100, 120, and 140 kV) and in bin images (tube voltage = 120 kV) as function of the higher threshold ( T 0 = 20 keV and T 1 [ 50 , 90 ] keV ). Simulations were performed for validation with measurements and to investigate more elements (cerium and gold), different patient sizes (infant, adult, and obese), and spectrum filtration (with and without 0.4-mm tin filter). The dose reductions associated with the CNRCD improvements over iodine were quantified as well.Results:CNRCD improvements and dose reductions depend on the investigated scenario. For the infant phantom, dose reductions around 30% were reached using cerium or gadolinium in combination with the tin filter. For the adult and obese phantom, reductions around 50% were provided by gadolinium or ytterbium in combination with the tin filter. Independently of the high-Z element, the CNRCD of two optimally combined bin images was higher than the CNRCD of the low threshold image. Good agreement was found between measurements and simulations.Conclusions:Between the investigated elements, gadolinium resulted to have the highest potential as novel contrast agent in PCCT, providing significant dose reductions for all patient sizes. Compared to the other elements, the implementation of gadolinium as CT contrast agent may be facilitated since it is already deployed as contrast agents for magnetic resonance imaging.
high-Z elements; novel contrast agents; photon-counting detectors; x-Ray computed tomography.
