33024090
2020 Oct 6
Elongation factor Tu GTP binding domain containing 2 (EFTUD2), a spliceosomal GTPase, plays a pivotal role in multiple organ development and innate immune. It has been reported that EFTUD2 is a new host factor with activity against HCV infection. However, the role of EFTUD2 in solid tumors, including hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), remains unexplored. In this study, we investigated the molecular function of EFTUD2 in HCC. Data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) indicated an upregulation of EFTUD2 in HCC tissues compared to that in nontumor liver tissues. Immunohistochemical analysis performed on two independent HCC cohorts confirmed the upregulation of EFTUD2 in HCC tissues and further suggested that a high level of EFTUD2 expression predicted shorter overall and recurrence-free survival in HCC patients. Functional studies suggested that siRNA interference with EFTUD2 expression significantly suppressed cell viability, blocked cell cycle progression, facilitated tumor cell apoptosis, and inhibited metastasis, while the enhancement of EFTUD2 expression promoted the proliferation and migration of HCC cells both in vitro and in vivo. Surprisingly, we also found that the stable knockdown of EFTUD2 expression via lentivirus infection was lethal for HCC cells. This finding suggested that EFTUD2 was essential for maintaining the survival of HCC cells. Mechanistically, RNA sequencing and gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) suggested that the gene sets of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and the JAK/STAT3 pathway were enriched in EFTUD2-overexpressing cells. Further verification indicated that EFTUD2-overexpressing cells exhibited an EMT-like phenotype and had enhanced STAT3 activation, while the STAT3 inhibitor S3I-201 partially blocked these pro-malignant effects of EFTUD2 overexpression. In summary, we report EFTUD2 as a novel oncogene that helps to maintain the survival of HCC cells and promotes HCC progression through the activation of STAT3. The high level of expression of EFTUD2 in HCC tissues indicates shorter overall and recurrence-free survival in HCC patients.

