33037444
2020 Oct 9.</span
Objectives:To investigate whether normalized iodine concentration (NIC) correlates with tumor microvessel density and early recurrence in patients with HCC.Materials and methods:We included 71 patients with surgically resected single HCC in this prospective study who underwent preoperative spectral CT between November 2014 and June 2016. Two observers independently measured the NIC in the arterial phase (AP) and portal venous phase (PVP). The relationship between NIC and microvessel density was evaluated. Univariate and multivariate logistic regression was performed to evaluate independent predictors of early recurrence.Results:Early recurrence occurred in 28 of 71 patients (39.4%) during the 2-year follow-up. NIC-AP positively correlated with microvessel density for the two observers (r = 0.593 and 0.527). Based on multivariate analysis, independent risk factors for early HCC recurrence were tumor size (odds ratio, 1.200; p = 0.043) and NIC-AP (odds ratio, 2.522; p = 0.005). For the two observers, areas under the receiver operating characteristic curve for predicting early HCC recurrence were 0.719 and 0.677. Early recurrence rates were significantly higher among patients with NIC-AP values higher than the optimal cutoff than among those with values below the cutoff.Conclusion:Normalized iodine concentration in the arterial phase from spectral CT reflects tumor-derived angiogenesis and is a potential predictive biomarker for early recurrence of hepatocellular carcinoma.Key points:• Normalized iodine concentration in the arterial phase positively correlated with microvessel density of hepatocellular carcinoma. • In the patients with hepatocellular carcinoma, tumor size and normalized iodine concentration in the arterial phase were independent risk factors for early hepatocellular carcinoma recurrence. • Early hepatocellular carcinoma recurrence rates were significantly higher when normalized iodine concentration in the arterial phase values was above the optimal cutoff.
Hepatocellular carcinoma; Neovascularization, Pathologic; Surgery; Tomography, X-ray computed; Treatment outcome.
