33041671
2020 Oct 8
Background:MiR-924 has been reported to be a tumor suppressor in hepatocellular carcinoma. However, the functions and mechanisms of miR-924 in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) remain unclear.Methods:The expression of miR-924 was determined in NSCLC tissues and cell lines using quantitative real time PCR. The Chi-squared test was used to evaluate the correlation between miR-924 levels and clinicopathological parameters in patients with NSCLC. Cell proliferation was assessed by CCK-8 assay. Cell migration and invasion were detected by transwell assay. The combination of miR-924 and RHBDD1 was analyzed via the luciferase reporter assay. The expression level of RHBDD1 was evaluated in lung cancer tissues using public microarray datasets form Oncomine and its prognostic value was assessed by Kaplan-Meier Plotter databases. A tumor xenograft mouse model was established to illustrate the effects of miR-924 on the tumorigenesis of NSCLC in vivo.Results:In this study, we found miR-924 was strikingly decreased in NSCLC tissues and cell lines. Decreased miR-924 was closely correlated with advanced tumor-node-metastasis (TNM) stage and lymphatic metastasis in NSCLC patients. Noticeably, rhomboid domain-containing protein 1 (RHBDD1) was predicted and confirmed as a direct target of miR-924. Moreover, the expression level of RHBDD1 was significantly increased and inversely associated with prognosis using public microarray datasets form Oncomine and Kaplan-Meier Plotter databases. MiR-924 overexpression suppressed cell proliferation, migration and invasion. The in vivo experiments further demonstrated that miR-924 overexpression reduced NSCLC xenograft growth through inhibiting RHBDD1/Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway.Conclusions:In summary, these findings demonstrated that miR-924 blocked the progression of NSCLC by targeting RHBDD1 and miR-924/RHBDD1 axis might provide a novel therapeutic target for the treatment of NSCLC.
Non-small cell lung cancer; RHBDD1; Wnt/β-catenin signaling; miR-924.
