33057863
2020 Oct 15.</span
1-Methylpyrene (1-MP) is a common environmental pollutant and animal carcinogen. After sequential activation by cytochromes P450 and sulfotransferases, it induced gene mutations and micronuclei in mammalian cells. The type of micronuclei formed, entire chromosomes or fragments, was not analysed. In this study, 1-MP and its primary metabolite, 1-hydroxymethylpyrene (1-HMP), were investigated for the induction of centromere-positive and -negative micronuclei in the human hepatoma cell line HepG2 and its derivative C3A, expressing relevant enzymes at higher levels. Under a short-exposure (9 h)/long-recovery regime (2 cell cycles in total), 1-MP and 1-HMP provided negative test results in HepG2 cells. However, they induced micronuclei in C3A cells, the effect being blocked by 1-aminobenzotriazole (inhibitor of cytochromes P450s) and reduced by pentachlorophenol (inhibitor of sulfotransferases). Immunofluorescence staining of centromere protein B in the micronuclei revealed purely clastogenic effects under this regime. Unexpectedly, 1-MP and 1-HMP at concentrations 1/5-1/4 of that required for micronuclei formation led to mitotic arrest and spindle aberrations, as detected by immunofluorescence staining of β- and γ-tubulin. Following extended exposure (72 h, 2 cell cycles, no recovery), damage to the spindle apparatus and centrosomes was detected at even lower concentrations, with concurrent formation of micronuclei. At low concentrations (1-8 µM 1-MP, 0.25-0.5 µM 1-HMP), the micronuclei induced were unexceptionally centromere-positive. Thus, the chromosome-damaging mechanism of 1-MP was regime and concentration dependent: potently aneugenic under persistent exposure, while clastogenic at higher concentrations following a short-exposure/long-recovery regime. This is a convincing evidence for the existence of metabolic activation-dependent aneugens.
1-Methylpyrene; Activation-dependent aneugenicity; Centrioles; Centromere protein B; Chromosome loss; Micronuclei; Spindle body.
