33080074
2020 Oct 20.</span
Background & aims:Mucosal-associated invariant T (MAIT) cells are non-conventional T cells restricted to MHC class I-related protein 1 (MR1). They are highly abundant in human liver, and activated by TCR-dependent and TCR-independent mechanisms to exhibit rapid innate-like effector responses. However, the roles of MAIT cells in chronic HBV infection still remain obscure. This study aims to test their antiviral potential, and investigate their dynamic changes and regulating factors during chronic HBV infection.Approach & results:Blood samples from 257 chronic HBV-infected patients were enrolled, and non-tumor liver specimens were collected from 58 HBV-infected hepatocellular carcinoma patients. Combining cell culture experiments and human data, we showed that MAIT cells had strong cytotoxicity against HBV-transfected hepatocytes in a MR1-dependent way. However, circulating and hepatic MAIT cells in HBV-infected patients decreased significantly compared with controls. Correlation analysis suggested MAIT cell frequency was associated with disease progression and inversely correlated with serum conjugated bilirubin level. In particular, conjugated bilirubin not only directly promoted MAIT cell activation and apoptosis, but also impaired TCR-induced proliferation and expansion of MAIT cells which could be partially rescued by IL-2 in the absence of conjugated bilirubin. Albeit MAIT cells from patients with high conjugated bilirubin level showed decreased cytokine producing capacity, the increased TCR-dependent antiviral cytokine production suggested MAIT cell as an important guardian of chronic hepatitis B with high conjugated bilirubin.Conclusion:We reveal MR1-dependent anti-HBV potential of MAIT cells and identify conjugated bilirubin as a major factor dysregulating its frequency and function in chronic HBV-infected patients, suggesting a novel therapeutic target for MAIT cell-based immunity against chronic HBV infection.
MAIT cells; anti-HBV potential; chronic HBV infection; direct bilirubin (DBIL); disease stages.
