33098970
2020 Oct 22
Ethnopharmacological relevance:Malignant ascites (MA) effusion is mainly caused by hepatocellular, ovarian, and breast cancer etc. It has been reported that Euphorbia kansui (EK), the root of Euphorbia kansui S.L.Liou ex S.B.Ho, possessing a therapeutic effect on MA. However, the clinical applications of EK are seriously restricted for its severe toxicity. Although studies demonstrated that vinegar-processing can reduce the toxicity and retain the water expelling effect of EK, its specific mechanism remains unknown.Aim of the study:This study aims to explore the underlying mechanisms of toxicity reduction without compromising the pharmacological effects of EK stir-fried with vinegar (VEK).Materials and methods:3-O-(2'E,4'Z-decadienoyl)-20-O-acetylingenol (3-O-EZ), a major diterpenoid of EK, could convert into ingenol after processing EK with vinegar. The H22 mouse hepatoma ascites model was replicated, and were given 3-O-EZ and ingenol seven days (110.14, 50.07 and 27.54 mg/kg). The histopathological observation, serum liver enzymes, serum Renin-Angiotensin-Aldosterone System (RAAS) levels, ascites volumes, pro-inflammatory cytokines levels and H22 cells apoptosis in ascites were examined. Then the intestine (Aquaporin 8, AQP8) and kidney (Aquaporin 2, AQP2; Vasopressin type 2 receptor, V2R) protein expression were detected, as well as the metabolomics of serum were analyzed. Finally, the content of 3-O-EZ and ingenol in EK and VEK were investigated.Results:3-O-EZ and ingenol can relieve hepatic and gastrointestinal injuries, reduce ascites volumes, enhance the H22 cells apoptosis, ameliorate abnormal pro-inflammatory cytokines and RAAS levels, and down-regulate the expression of AQP8, AQP2, V2R. The involved metabolic pathways mainly included glycerophospholipid metabolism and arachidonic acid metabolism. And the decreasing rate of 3-O-EZ in VEK was 19.14%, the increasing rate of ingenol in VEK was 92.31%.Conclusion:3-O-EZ and ingenol possess significant effect in treating MA effusion, while ingenol has lower toxicity compared with 3-O-EZ. And provide evidence for the mechanism of attenuation in toxicity without compromising the pharmacological effects of VEK.
Diterpenoid; Euphorbia kansui; Vinegar-processing; Water expelling effect evaluation.
