33116607
2020 Oct 13
Background:The majority of patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) are diagnosed at an advanced stage that excludes them from potentially curative surgical treatment. Lenvatinib is associated with a high objective response rate (ORR) (40.6%) in advanced HCC, indicating the potential for tumor downstaging and conversion to surgical intervention. We report the case of a patient with recurrent, advanced HCC who achieved a partial response and downstaging following third-line treatment with lenvatinib but missed the opportunity for conversion hepatectomy.Case presentation:A male Chinese patient aged 42 years presented with an obstructive liver lesion, revealed by CT imaging to be a single tumor in segments V and VIII of the liver, without macrovascular invasion. The patient had chronic hepatitis B infection, Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer (BCLC) Stage A, normal liver function (Child-Pugh Score 5 and Grade A) and AFP level 4.45 ng/mL. The patient underwent a successful hepatectomy but experienced recurrence 14 months later. The recurrent tumor was detected at an early stage and the patient underwent successful radiofrequency ablation and transarterial chemoembolization. After a further 11 months, the patient experienced a second relapse characterized by multiple disseminated metastases in the left and right lobes of the liver and possible macrovascular invasion, equal to BCLC Stage B/C. The patient received lenvatinib and achieved a partial response with complete disappearance of a number of lesions, recovering to BCLC Stage A and becoming eligible for liver transplantation. However, the patient refused surgery and after 4 months experienced progressive disease.Conclusion:Our case suggests that radical treatment, such as conversion hepatectomy or liver transplantation, should be undertaken quickly following downstaging and within the expected PFS time associated with lenvatinib. However, further studies are required to provide additional evidence for this treatment strategy.
conversion hepatectomy; hepatocellular carcinoma; lenvatinib; liver transplantation.
