33116575
2020 Oct 6
Background:Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) includes cryptogenic hepatocellular carcinomas (CR-HCC) that lack a defined cause. Specific DNA methylation patterns and comparisons of the aberrant alterations in DNA methylation between CR-HCC and adjacent peritumor tissues (APTs) have not yet been reported.Methods:The SureSelectXT Methyl-Seq Target Enrichment System was used to sequence targeted DNA methylation in three paired CR-HCC tissues and APTs. Gene Ontology (GO) enrichment and KEGG pathway analysis were performed to investigate the DNA methylation mechanism of CR-HCC. The mRNA expression levels of HOXB-AS3, HOXB6, HOXB3, USP18, MAP3K6, TIRAP, TNNI2, SHC3, CTTN, and TFAP2A, selected from the identified signaling pathways, were evaluated by quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR).Results:A total of 1728 differentially methylated regions (DMRs) were identified in tumor tissues compared with non-tumor tissues, of which 868 DMRs were hypermethylated and 860 were hypomethylated. The DMRs were mapped within 2091 DMR-associated genes (DMGs). The mRNA expression of HOXB-AS3, HOXB3, and MAP3K6 was downregulated in CR-HCC tissues compared to the APTs. However, the mRNA expression of TIRAP, SHC3, and CTTN was upregulated in the CR-HCC tissues. Differences between the mRNA expression of HOXB6, USP18, TNNI2, and TFAP2A in the CR-HCC and APTS tissues were not statistically significant. GO analysis showed that the molecular functions of "binding", "protein binding", and "cytoskeletal protein binding" were the main categories for the hypermethylated DMGs. The hypomethylated DMGs were mostly enriched in the molecular functions "binding", "protein binding", "calcium ion binding", among others. KEGG pathway analysis showed that the hypermethylated DMGs were enriched in several pathways such as "estrogen signaling pathway", while hypomethylated DMGs were enriched in several pathways such as "proteoglycans in cancer", suggesting that epigenetic modifications play important roles in the cryptogenic hepatocarcinogenesis.Conclusion:These results provide useful information for future work to characterize the functions of epigenetic mechanisms on CR-HCC.
DMR; DNA methylation; cryptogenic hepatocellular carcinomas.
