33126359
2020 Oct 30
Rationale:Surgical treatment of spinal hepatocellular carcinoma metastasis after Liver transplantation (LT) is a clinical challenge. We herein report the clinical outcomes of the first case of a patient with T11 from hepatocellular carcinoma metastasis after systemic chemotherapy following LT combined with mesenteric resection and colectomy, who was successfully treated with En Bloc spondylectomy.Patient concerns:The patient with HCC was a 40-year-old man, who had received LT combined with mesenteric resection and colectomy 15 months before. His main symptom was progressive back pain because of T11 metastasis. PET examinations showed a solitary metastasis at T11 without recurrence in the liver and metastasis in the other organs.Diagnosis:The patient was diagnosed with the T11 vertebra HCC metastasis after LT combined with resection of HCC mesenteric metastasis and colon metastasis.Interventions:Five cycles of systemic chemotherapy following LT were performed for preventing HCC metastases. However, the right abdominal wall metastasis was found 9 months after LT, followed by T11 metastases thereafter. Immediate resection of the right abdominal wall metastasis was achieved. En Bloc spondylectomy of T11 vertebra was chosen as a treatment for metastasis to T11. After T11 surgery, the patient showed obvious pain relief. However, At 3 months after T11 surgery, a grafted liver metastasis and multiple nodules metastasis in the greater omentum region were revealed with CT imaging, At 5 months after T11 surgery, multiple lung metastases were discovered by MRI. The patient was performed 5 cycles of chemotherapy, 3 times of infusion of iodine [131I] meximab and 3 times of TACE after T11 surgery. Multiple bone metastases were treated with radiotherapy.Outcomes:The patient died 29 months after LT combined with mesenteric resection and colectomy because of recurrence in the liver and metastasis in the lung.Lessons:En Bloc spondylectomy may be a therapeutic choice for patients with progression after systemic chemotherapy for the solitary spinal metastases after LT combined with mesenteric resection and colectomy, which has a survival benefit without local recurrence at the surgical site. immunosuppressant after LT may result in worse immune function, which leads to HCC more prone to recurrence and bone metastasis.

