33137360
2020 Oct 31
Background & aims:Macrophages (Mϕ) represent a major component of tumor tissues and play an important role in both tumor progression and therapeutic response. Although tumor Mϕ are generally considered to be derived from circulating monocytes, emerging evidence indicates that tissue Mϕ pools can be maintained by self-renewal. We aimed to elucidate the contribution, phenotype, and regulatory mechanisms of proliferating Mϕ in human hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).Methods:Flow cytometry analyses were performed to examine the presence and phenotype of proliferating Mϕ in fresh HCC tissues. Dual immunofluorescence staining was applied to analyze the prognostic value of proliferating Mϕ. The underlying regulatory mechanisms were examined using human monocyte-derived Mϕ.Results:Tumor-infiltrating Mϕ exhibited a significantly higher proliferative capacity than Mϕ in non-tumor tissues. A higher level of Mϕ proliferation was positively correlated with Mϕ density in the tumor and a poor prognosis in patients with HCC. Proliferating Mϕ were less differentiated (with increased CD206 expression) and were induced by the tumor cell-derived soluble small molecule, adenosine, but not proteins, lipids, or large peptides. Mechanistic studies demonstrated that autocrine granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) released by tumor-stimulated Mϕ could enhance A2A receptor expression on Mϕ and function synergistically with adenosine to elicit Mϕ proliferation in HCC.Conclusions:Local Mϕ proliferation is an important mechanism for Mϕ accumulation in HCC tissues. Tumor-derived adenosine functions synergistically with autocrine GM-CSF released from activated Mϕ, which promotes Mϕ proliferation. Thus, selective modulation of Mϕ accumulation at the source may provide a novel strategy for cancer therapy.Lay summary:Tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) have been reported to play an essential role in both tumor progression and therapeutic response. A fundamental understanding of the mechanisms that regulate macrophage accumulation in tumors will undoubtedly lead to the development of strategies to target macrophages with high specificity and efficiency. The current study unveils a novel mechanism by which local proliferation is linked to macrophage accumulation in the tumor milieu, identifying potential targets for future immune-based anticancer therapies.
Adenosine; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Mϕ proliferation.
