33150086
2020 Oct 20
Background:Macrophage play a crucial role in regulating tumor progression. This study intended to investigate the circular RNA (circRNA) regulatory network associated with macrophage infiltration in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).Methods:The immune cell fractions of HCC from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and International Cancer Genome Consortium were calculated by Estimation of the Proportion of Immune and Cancer cells algorithm. The differentially expressed mRNAs (DEmRNAs), microRNAs (DEmiRNAs) and circRNAs (DEcircRNAs) were identified from HCC and adjacent non-tumor cases of TCGA or Gene Expression Omnibus database. The DEmRNAs related to macrophage were selected by weighted gene co-expression network analysis and then utilized to generate the circRNA-miRNA-mRNA network. A hub circRNA regulatory network was established based on the co-expressed DEmiRNAs and DEmRNAs owning contrary correlation with the clinical characteristics, survival and macrophage infiltration level. A gene signature based on the DEmRNAs in hub network was also generated for further evaluation. The circRNA binding bite for miRNA was detected by luciferase assay.Results:High macrophage fraction predicted good survival for HCC. A circRNA-miRNA-mRNA network was constructed by 27 macrophage related DEmRNAs, 21 DEmiRNAs, and 15 DEcircRNAs. Among this network, the expression of hsa-miR-139-5p was negatively correlated with CDCA8, KPNA2, PRC1 or TOP2A. Hsa-miR-139-5p low or targeted DEmRNA high expression was associated with low macrophage infiltration, high grade, advanced stage and poor prognosis of HCC. Additionally, the risk score generated by 4-DEmRNA signature could reflect the macrophage infiltration status and function as an independent prognostic factor for HCC. Finally, hsa_circ_0007456 acting on hsa-miR-139-5p related network was viewed as the hub circRNA regulatory network. Taken together, some circRNA regulatory networks may be associated with macrophage infiltration, which provides clues for mechanism study and therapeutic strategies of HCC.
Hepatocellular carcinoma; Macrophage; Circular RNA; Regulatory network.
