33178778
2020 Oct
Associating liver partition and portal vein ligation for staged hepatectomy (ALPPS) allows radical resection of colorectal liver metastasis (CRLM). However, the effect of ALPPS on hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is not completely understood. This systematic review aimed to examine the existing data on the safety, feasibility, and oncologic effect of ALPPS on HCC. Electronic databases, including PubMed, Web of Science, and Embase, were systemically searched to identify articles on ALPPS and HCC. Additional articles were identified manually. The feasibility (liver hypertrophy between two stages), safety (90-day mortality), and therapeutic effect (long-term survival) were analyzed. Nine published articles that satisfied the retrieval standards were included, and these studies involved 176 patients. The evidence level of the enrolled studies was low, among which, the greatest Oxford evidence level was 2c. Additionally, the average median increase in future liver volume was 178 mL, the average interval between two stages was 11.2 days, the interval was remarkably longer in radiofrequency-assisted ALPPS (RALPPS) patients (28 days), and the average 90-day mortality was 17.6% (range, 0-50%). However, the oncological outcomes were not well documented. Survival following ALPPS was evidently improved compared with that after transcatheter arterial chemoembolization (TACE). This value was comparable to that following the one-stage hepatectomy and portal vein embolization (PVE), and it was similar to that in CRLM patients over the long term. Publication biases caused by case series and single-center reports are common in the review. It is concluded in this review that ALPPS is a safe and feasible approach to treat selected patients with unresectable HCC, but its oncological outcome requires further study. RALPPS is not recommended for HCC patients because of the long waiting time between the two stages.
Safety; associating liver partition and portal vein ligation for staged hepatectomy (ALPPS); efficacy; feasibility; hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).
