33193737
2020 Oct 26
Karyopherin α2 (KPNA2) was reported to be overexpressed and have unfavorable prognostic effects in many malignancies including hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Although its contributions to inflammatory response were reported in many studies, its specific associations with immune infiltrations and immune pathways during cancer progression were unclear. Here, we aimed to identify new markers for HCC diagnosis and prognosis through KPNA2-associated immune analyses. RNA-seq expression data of HCC datasets were downloaded from The Cancer Genome Atlas and International Cancer Genome Consortium. The gene expressions were counts per million normalized. The infiltrations of 24 kinds of immune cells in the samples were evaluated with ImmuCellAI (Immune Cell Abundance Identifier). The Spearman correlations of the immune infiltrations with KPNA2 expression were investigated, and the specific positive correlation of B-cell infiltration with KPNA2 expression in HCC tumors was identified. Fifteen genes in KEGG (Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes) B-cell receptor signaling pathway presented significant correlations with KPNA2 expression in HCC. Among them, GRB2 and NRAS were indicated to be independent unfavorable prognostic factors for HCC overall survival. Clinical Proteomic Tumor Analysis Consortium HCC dataset was investigated to validate the results at protein level. The upregulation and unfavorable prognostic effects of KPNA2 and GRB2 were confirmed, whereas, unlike its mRNA form, NRAS protein was presented to be downregulated and have favorable prognostic effects. Through receiver operating characteristic curve analysis, the diagnostic potential of the three proteins was shown. The RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) of KPNA2, NRAS, and GRB2, downloaded via The Encyclopedia of RNA Interactomes, were investigated for their clinical significance in HCC at protein level. An eight-RBP signature with independent prognostic value and dysregulations in HCC was identified. All the RBPs were significantly correlated with MKI67 expression and at least one of KPNA2, GRB2, and NRAS at protein level in HCC, indicating their roles in HCC progression and the regulation of the three proteins. We concluded that KPNA2, GRB2, NRAS, and their RBPs might have coordinating roles in HCC immunoregulation and progression. They might be new markers for HCC diagnosis and prognosis predication and new targets for HCC immunotherapy.
GRB2; KPNA2; NRAS; RNA-binding protein; hepatocellular carcinoma; immune infiltration; prognosis.
