33209885
2020 Oct
Background:Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the fourth most common malignant tumor in China. Temozolomide (TMZ) is a common chemotherapy drug which can effectively kill HCC cells in vitro. However, it is possible that HCC cells possess intrinsic resistance to TMZ. A key mechanism of TMZ resistance is the overexpression of O6-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase (MGMT). Studies have shown that MAPK may be related to MGMT expression, U0126 is a highly selective inhibitor of MEK1 and MEK2, which were crucial molecule in cascade of mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal regulated kinase (MAPK/ERK) pathway. Sorafenib was another widely applicated target drug in HCC which could inhibit multiple kinases including MAPK/ERK. This research was aimed to investigate the efficacy of MAPK/ERK inhibitor U0126 and sorafenib combine with TMZ in the treatment of HCC.Methods:In HCC cells, MAPK/ERK signaling pathway was blocked by U0126 and sorafenib. The effect of blocking MAPK/ERK signaling pathway on TMZ-induced cytotoxicity was evaluated by MTT assay, flow cytometry and TUNEL assay. DNA damage protein and the expression of MGMT were detected by Western-blot. After the downregulation of MAPK/ERK signaling pathway, MGMT mRNA expression and the protein expression of MGMT were quantified by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) and immunofluorescence assay, respectively. HepG2 cells were transfected with an MGMT over expression plasmid. After transfection, the effect of U0126 on TMZ-induced cytotoxicity was evaluated by MTT and Western-Blot in MGMT OE cells. The influence of Sorafenib on TMZ-induced cytotoxicity to HCC cells was also detected by MTT assay.Results:U0126 can enhance the chemosensitivity of HCC cells to TMZ. At the same time, we also found that U0126 increases the damage to DNA caused by TMZ in HepG2 cells. Moreover, the results from RT-qPCR and Western blot showed that U0126 downregulated MGMT mRNA and MGMT protein expression via blocking MAPK/ERK pathway. Furthermore, after transfection with an MGMT expression plasmid, overexpression of MGMT restored U0126-induced chemosensitivity to TMZ in HCC cells. Sorafenib can also increase the chemosensitivity of HCC cells to TMZ.Conclusions:Our studies suggest great clinical potential for the utilization of combined U0126 and TMZ in patients with advanced HCC.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC); chemosensitivity; methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase (MGMT); mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal regulated kinase pathway (MAPK/ERK pathway); sorafenib; temozolomide (TMZ).
