31935454
2020 Mar
The Aidi injection contains multiple active ingredients, including astragaloside (Re, Rb1, and Rg1), ginsenoside, cantharidin, elentheroside E, and syringin, and it is administered with vinorelbine and cisplatin (NP) to treat non-small-cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC). In this study, we performed a systematic review and meta-analysis to determine the clinical efficacy and safety of the Aidi injection with NP, and the optimal threshold and treatment regimen to produce the desired responses. We collected all studies regarding the Aidi injection with NP for NSCLC from Chinese and English databases (up to April 2019). Risk of methodological bias was evaluated for each study. Data for analysis were extracted using a standard data extraction form. Evidence quality was assessed following the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation approach. We included 54 trials containing 4,053 patients for analysis. Combining the Aidi injection with NP significantly increased the objective response rate (odds ratio [OR], 1.32; confidence interval [CI], 1.23, 1.42), disease control rate (OR, 1.14; CI, 1.11, 1.18), and quality of life (OR, 1.80; CI, 1.61, 1.98), with decreased risks of myelosuppression, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, anemia, gastrointestinal reaction, and liver dysfunction. For patients with a Karnofsky Performance Status score of ≥60, the Aidi injection (50 mL/day, two weeks/cycle, with two to three cycles) treatment with vinorelbine (25 mg/m2) and cisplatin (30-35 mg/m2 or 40-50 mg/m2) might be the optimal regimen for producing the desired tumor response and achieving a good safety level. Most results were robust, and their quality was moderate. The results suggest that administration of the Aidi injection and concomitant NP is beneficial to NSCLC, and provide evidence for the optimal threshold and treatment regimen that may improve tumor response with a good safety level.
Aidi injection; Meta-Analysis; Randomized controlled trial; Systematic review; Vinorelbine and cisplatin; non–small-cell lung carcinoma.
