31987131
2020 Mar 1
Oral cavity cancer is a common cancer type that presents an increasingly serious global problem. Oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) accounts for >90% oral cancer cases. No biomarker tests are currently available for management of this cancer type in clinical practice. Previously, we validated matrix metalloproteinase-1 (MMP1) as one of the most promising salivary biomarkers for OSCC detection. Development of a convenient, rapid and high-throughput assay should further facilitate application of salivary MMP1 measurement for early detection of OSCC. The present study aimed to develop a workflow comprising dry saliva spot (DSS) sampling and immunoenrichment-coupled MALDI-TOF MS (immuno-MALDI) analysis to quantify salivary MMP1. We generated recombinant MMP1 protein and anti-peptide antibodies against MMP1, which were used to optimize the procedures of the entire workflow, including DSS sampling, on-paper protein digestion and elution, KingFisher magnetic particle processor-assisted immuno-enrichment and MALDI-TOF MS analysis. The established workflow was applied to measure salivary MMP1 levels in DSS samples from 5 healthy donors and 9 OSCC cases. The newly developed workflow showed good precision (intra-day and inter-day variations <10%) and accuracy (80-100%) in quantification of MMP1 in DSS samples, with the limit of quantification at 3.07 ng/ml. Using this assay, we successfully detected elevated salivary MMP1 levels (ranging from 5.95 to 242.52 ng/ml) in 7 of 9 OSCC cases while MMP1 was not detectable in samples from the 5 healthy donors. In comparison, the traditional immunoassay was not effective in measuring MMP1 in DSS samples, highlighting the significant advantage of our immuno-MALDI assay. The DSS sampling format confers high flexibility and convenience of collection, storage and delivery of saliva specimens and the KingFisher-assisted immuno-MALDI analysis renders the assay as suitable for high-throughput screening. By combining the two features, the workflow developed in this study should facilitate improvement of molecular diagnostic tests for OSCC using salivary MMP1 as a biomarker.
Biomarker; Dried saliva spot; Immuno-MALDI; Metalloproteinase-1; Oral cancer.
