32143005
2020 Mar 3
As a common malignant tumor, hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) has high fatality rate due to its strong metastasis and high degree of malignancy. Current treatment strategies adopted in clinical practice were still conventional surgery, assisted with interventional therapy, radiotherapy and chemotherapy. However these treatments have limited effects with high recurrence rate. Current research progress of immunocytotherapy has shown that tumor cells can be directly identified and killed by stimulating the immune function and enhancing the anti-tumor immunity in tumor microenvironment. Targeted immunotherapeutics have therefore become the hope of conquering cancer in the future. It can kill tumor cells without damaging the body's immune system and function, restore and strengthen the body's natural anti-tumor immune system. It can reduce the toxic side effects of radiotherapy and chemotherapy, reduce the recurrence rate and prolong the survival period of patients with HCC. Currently, the immune cells widely studied are mainly as follows: Dendritic cells (DC), Cytokine-induced killer (CIK), DC-CIK, Chimeric antigen receptor T cells (CAR-T), Tumor infiltrating lymphocyte (TIL) and Natural killer cell (NK). Immunocytotherapy is a long-term treatment method, some studies have combined traditional therapy with immunocytotherapy and achieved significant effects, providing experimental basis for the application of immunocytotherapy. However, there are still some difficulties in the clinical application of immune cells. In this article, we discuss the application of immunocytotherapy in the clinical treatment of HCC, their effectiveness either alone or in combination with conventional therapies, and how future immunocytotherapeutics can be further improved from investigations in tumour immunology.
Chimeric antigen receptor T cells (CAR-T); Cytokine-induced killer (CIK); DC-CIK; Dendritic cells (DC); Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC); Immunocytotherapy; Natural killer cell (NK); Tumor infiltrating lymphocyte (TIL).
