32159517
2020 Mar 11
Background:Exercise is predicted to have a positive effect among hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) patients. However, these patients are hesitant to start and build up an exercise program for one major reason: the vague fear of developing hepatic decompensation, a potentially fatal condition that can lead to death. Integrating mobile health (mHealth) with individualized exercise programs could be a possible option for promoting physical capacity among HCC patients.Objective:The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of rehabilitation exercises, which have been individually prescribed via an mHealth app, on physical fitness, body composition, biochemical profile, and quality of life among HCC patients.Methods:A total of 37 HCC patients were enrolled in a 12-week course with an mHealth app program targeted to HCC patients. The wearable wristband device Neofit (Partron Co) was provided to participants, and recorded daily physical data, such as the number of steps, calorie expenditure, exercise time, and heart rate. Each participant was given an individualized rehabilitation exercise program that was prescribed and adjusted at the 6-week midintervention period based on the assessment results. At baseline, 6-week, and 12-week sessions, participants' physical fitness levels (ie, 6-minute walk test, grip strength test, and 30-second chair stand test) were measured. Physical activity levels, as measured by the International Physical Activity Questionnaire-Short Form (IPAQ-SF); body composition (ie, body mass index, body fat percentage, and muscle mass); biochemical profiles; and quality of life, as measured by the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality-of-Life Questionnaire C30, were assessed at baseline and at the end point. At the 6-week midpoint, exercise intensity was individually adjusted.Results:Of the 37 patients, 31 (84%) completed the 12-week intervention. Grip strength improved significantly after 12 weeks of the intervention. The 30-second chair stand test and the 6-minute walk test showed significant improvement from 0 to 6 weeks, from 0 to 12 weeks, and from 6 to 12 weeks. Muscle mass and the IPAQ-SF score increased significantly after 12 weeks of the intervention without biochemical deterioration.Conclusions:Following 12 weeks of mHealth care, including an individually prescribed rehabilitation exercise program, we saw significant improvements in physical fitness, body composition, and physical activity without any complication or biochemical deterioration among compensated HCC patients who had completed therapy.
exercise; hepatocellular carcinoma; mHealth; physical activity; physical fitness; rehabilitation.
