32257389
2020 Mar 30
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), a hepatic malignancy, has a poor prognosis and contributes to cancer-related death worldwide. Cellular senescence is an anticancer therapeutic strategy that causes irreversible cell cycle arrest and enables immune-mediated clearance of cancer cells. Atorvastatin, an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor, has been shown to inhibit tumor growth and induce apoptosis or autophagy in malignant tumors. However, whether atorvastatin can induce HCC cell senescence and the mechanisms involved are poorly understood. The effects of atorvastatin-induced senescence were examined in both HCC cells and mouse xenograft models. The phenomenon and mechanism of senescence were examined by cell cycle analysis, senescence-associated β-galactosidase (SA-β-gal) staining and western blotting in HCC cells, and HCC tissues from mice were analyzed by immunohistochemical (IHC) staining. We demonstrated that atorvastatin induced cell growth inhibition and G0/G1 phase cell cycle arrest, leading to senescence in HCC cells. Atorvastatin-induced senescence was independent of p53, p14, and p16, and atorvastatin not only decreased the secretion of IL-6, a major senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP) factor, and the phosphorylation of STAT3 but also inhibited the expression of hTERT, a catalytic subunit of telomerase. Supplementation with exogenous IL-6 reversed both atorvastatin-induced suppression of STAT3 phosphorylation and hTERT expression and atorvastatin-induced senescence. Overexpression of constitutively activated STAT3 rescued HCC cells from atorvastatin-induced hTERT suppression and senescence. Moreover, atorvastatin decreased tumor growth in mouse xenograft models. Consistent with these results, atorvastatin decreased the IL-6, p-STAT3, and hTERT levels and increased β-gal expression in tumor sections. Taken together, these data indicate that atorvastatin can induce atypical cellular senescence in HCC cells to inhibit tumor growth, an effect mediated by downregulation of hTERT through suppression of the IL-6/STAT3 pathway.
Cancer therapy; Senescence.
