32273943
2020 Mar 19
Background:Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a life-threatening cancer, and the Kelch-like ECH-associated protein 1 (Keap1)/NF-E2-related factor 2 (Nrf2)/antioxidant response element (ARE) signalling pathway plays a crucial role in apoptosis resistance in cancer cells. Fasting is reported to mediate tumour growth reduction and apoptosis. SET8 is involved in cancer proliferation, invasiveness, and migration. However, whether SET8 participates in fasting-mediated apoptosis in HCC remains unclear.Methods:We used immunohistochemical staining to analyse the expression of SET8, Keap1, and Nrf2 in HCC tissues. Cell viability, apoptosis, and cellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) were assessed, and Western blot and qPCR analyses were used to examine the expression of Keap1/Nrf2 in HCC cells under fasting, SET8 overexpression, and PGC1α overexpression conditions. Mass spectrometry, coimmunoprecipitation, and confocal microscopy were used to determine whether PGC1α overexpression conditions. Mass spectrometry, coimmunoprecipitation, and confocal microscopy were used to determine whether PGC1In vivo experiments were performed to verify the conclusions from the in vitro experiments.Results:Our data indicate that SET8 expression is associated with poor survival in HCC patients. Both in vitro experiments. in vivo experiments were performed to verify the conclusions from the α overexpression conditions. Mass spectrometry, coimmunoprecipitation, and confocal microscopy were used to determine whether PGC1α overexpression conditions. Mass spectrometry, coimmunoprecipitation, and confocal microscopy were used to determine whether PGC1.Conclusions:The results of our study demonstrate that fasting induces HCC apoptosis by inhibiting SET8 expression and that SET8 interacts with PGC1α to activate the Nrf2/ARE signalling pathway by inhibiting Keap1 expression.α overexpression conditions. Mass spectrometry, coimmunoprecipitation, and confocal microscopy were used to determine whether PGC1.

