32284760
2020 Mar 26
Purpose: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are key regulators of the growth and development of a wide range of cancer types such as colorectal cancer (CRC). A number of previously studies have observed that the levels of miR-365a-3p expression are dysregulated in many cancers, but the specific role of this miRNA in CRC and its association with patient prognosis remains unclear. Methods: The expression of miR-365a-3p in CRC tissues and cell lines was detected by Real-time Quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR), while the relationship between miR-365a-3p expression and clinicopathological characteristics was further analyzed. After increasing the expression of miR-365a-3p by plasmid transfection in CRC cells, we further investigated the cell proliferation, invasion and migration by cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8), and Transwell assays. Epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) pathway was also measured by western blotting. In addition, the relationship among miR-365a-3p, ADAM10 and JAK in CRC, was explored by luciferase reporter assay. Results: In the present study, we determined that CRC cells and clinical samples exhibited decreased miR-365a-3p expression, and this was associated with larger tumor size, lymph node metastasis, and local invasion. Patients with lower expression of miR-365a-3p had significantly decreased recurrence-free survival (RFS) and overall survival (OS) relative to those with higher levels of this miRNA. In a multivariate analysis, we confirmed that reduced miR-365a-3p levels were independently predictive of poorer CRC patient outcomes. In a functional study, we determined that elevated miR-365a-3p expression inhibited the ability of CRC cells to proliferate and metastasize in vitro and in vivo. We further identified ADAM10 as a direct miR-365a-3p target, resulting in the suppression of ADAM10 expression in cells expressing this miRNA and ADAM10 levels were in turn closely linked to JAK/STAT signaling. Conclusion: Our study suggested the ability of miR-365a-3p to inhibit the progression of CRC at least in part via suppressing ADAM10 expression and associated JAK/STAT signaling, thus identifying this signaling axis as a possible prognostic and therapeutic target in CRC.
ADAM10; biomarker; colorectal carcinoma; miR-365a-3p; prognosis.
