32292519
2020 Mar 25
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains one of the most refractory malignancies worldwide. Schlafen family member 11 (SLFN11) has been reported to play an important role in inhibiting the production of human immunodeficiency virus 1 (HIV-1). However, whether SLFN11 also inhibits hepatitis B virus (HBV), and affects HBV-induced HCC remain to be systematically investigated. Methods: qRT-PCR, western blot and immunohistochemical (IHC) staining were conducted to investigate the potential role and prognostic value of SLFN11 in HCC. Then SLFN11 was stably overexpressed or knocked down in HCC cell lines. To further explore the potential biological function of SLFN11 in HCC, cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8) assays, colony formation assays, wound healing assays and transwell cell migration and invasion assays were performed in vitro. Meanwhile, HCC subcutaneous xenograft tumor models were established for in vivo assays. Subsequently, immunoprecipitation (IP) and liquid chromatography coupled with tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) analyses were applied to understand the molecular mechanisms of SLFN11 in HCC. Co-IP, immunofluorescence and IHC staining were used to analyze the relationship between ribosomal protein S4 X-linked (RPS4X) and SLFN11. Finally, the therapeutic potential of SLFN11 with mTOR pathway inhibitor INK128 on inhibiting HCC growth and metastasis was evaluated in vitro and in vivo orthotopic xenograft mouse models. Results: We demonstrate that SLFN11 expression is decreased in HCC, which is associated with shorter overall survival and higher recurrence rates in patients. In addition, we show that low SLFN11 expression is associated with aggressive clinicopathologic characteristics. Moreover, overexpression of SLFN11 inhibits HCC cell proliferation, migration, and invasion, facilitates apoptosis in vitro, and impedes HCC growth and metastasis in vivo, all of which are attenuated by SLFN11 knockdown. Mechanistically, SLFN11 physically associates with RPS4X and blocks the mTOR signaling pathway. In orthotopic mouse models, overexpression of SLFN11 or inhibition of mTOR pathway inhibitor by INK128 reverses HCC progression and metastasis. Conclusions: SLFN11 may serve as a powerful prognostic biomarker and putative tumor suppressor by suppressing the mTOR signaling pathway via RPS4X in HCC. Our study may therefore offer a novel therapeutic strategy for treating HCC patients with the mTOR pathway inhibitor INK128.
Schlafen family member 11; hepatocellular carcinoma; mTOR inhibitor; prognostic biomarker; ribosomal protein S4 X-linked.
