20641916

One of the mechanisms that tumor cells use to escape the cytotoxic effects of chemotherapeutic agents, such as Adriamycin, Vinca alkaloids, epipodophyllotoxins, actinomycin D, and paclitaxel (PAC), is to limit their presence inside the cells through the actions of P-glycoprotein (P-gp), a protein encoded by the multidrug resistance (MDR-1) gene (1, 2). P-gp is an ATP-dependent transmembrane multidrug transporter that is capable of actively pumping a variety of agents out of cells. Injection of unlabeled efflux pump substrates increases the retention of radioactivity in tumors rather than lessening the retention, as seen with receptor-binding radiotracers. Overexpression of P-gp in tumor cells (such as renal carcinoma, hepatoma, pheochromocytoma, and colon carcinoma) leads to resistance to anticancer drugs (3). P-gp is also present in a variety of normal cells, such as intestinal mucosal cells, hepatocytes, renal proximal tubule epithelial cells, and endothelial cells of the blood-brain barrier (4, 5). Calcium channel blockers, cyclosporin A, and its non-immunosuppressive analog PSC 833 are MDR modulators that inhibit transport of P-gp substrates out of cells (6, 7).Sestamibi (MIBI) is a substrate for P-gp. 99mTc-MIBI has been approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) as a myocardial perfusion imaging agent for use with single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) to assess the risk of future cardiac events. It is also approved as a tumor-imaging agent in breast, lung, thyroid, and brain cancers. PAC is an FDA-approved chemotherapeutic agent exerting its antitumor activity by binding to β-tubulin to inhibit cell division (8). It is also a transport substrate for P-gp in tumor cells, leading to drug-related resistance to chemotherapy (8, 9). Therefore, [18F]fluoropaclitaxel ([18F]FPAC) is being developed as a positron emission tomography (PET) agent to noninvasively study P-gp function and multidrug resistance in tumors and normal tissues.

