22261732
2012
Objectives:Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and cholangiolar carcinoma (CC) cell lines are used to analyze the basic mechanisms of carcinogenesis and target therapies. However, it is not yet clear which chromosomal aberrations are to be typically expected in such cell lines. It is also not clear whether there are prerequisites for in vitro growth on the genomic and/or expression level. We therefore analyzed HCC and CC cell lines for typical genetic settings.Methods:The HCC cell lines HLE, HLF, Huh7, HepG2 and Hep3b and the CC cell lines EGI1, MzCha1 and TFK-1 were analyzed using high-density arrays for comparative genomic hybridization (aCGH; 244,000 oligonucleotides). Additional fluorescence in situ hybridization analyses were done to confirm the aCGH results and to add information regarding the aneuploidy of cell lines.Results:The gain of 1q, in particular q21-22, was detected in all HCC cell lines also as a partial loss of 13q. In contrast, a loss of 8p in combination with a relative gain of 8q was seen in all CC but no HCC cell lines. Interestingly, a gain of 17q was seen in all cell lines. These aberrations are also well documented for surgical tumor specimens. Besides these imbalances, the cell lines revealed imbalances for 11p, 12p, 14q, 16p, 16q, 21q and 22q, respectively, only rarely seen in surgical tumor specimens. These aberrations could be of importance for the in vitro cultivation of tumor cells. Structural aberrations were accompanied by aneuploidy in 3 of 5 HCC cell lines and 2 of 3 CC cell lines. Ploidy status was not correlated to any of the imbalances mentioned above.Conclusions:HCC and CC cell lines revealed characteristic chromosomal imbalances similar to those seen in surgical tumor specimens including chromosomes 1, 8, 13 and 17, respectively. These aberrations are characteristic of the histogenetic origin of the tumor cells. However, the chromosomal imbalances that occurred probably led to the ability of tumor cells to grow in vitro.

