23097965
2012
Introduction:Infection with hepatitis C is often manifested by a mild clinical course, and in many patients it is revealed incidentally, during routine laboratory ests. Progression of the disease often takes 10-20 years with specified high risk of fibrosis and hepatocellular carcinoma.Material and methods:The group of subjects with chronic liver disease of viral C etiology was consisted of 50 patients of both sexes, 38 (75%) were male and 13 (25%) females, aged 20-65 years. Patients were selected according to genotype hepatitis C viral infection and subsequently treated according to two current therapeutic protocols. All patients had prior therapy and after completion of treatment using standard methods of laboratory tests were done the following: functional hepatic tests, serological analysis, nucleic acid detection of hepatitis C virus polymerase chain reaction (PCR), quantitatively and qualitatively with the genotyping of the virus C, which determines the length of therapy. In determining the stage of chronic liver disease, histopathological examination of liver tissue samples obtained by biopsy of the liver was done and we analyzed the fibrosis and architectural changes.Results:By analyzing the HCV RNA PCR values at the beginning and end of treatment we tested the effect of treatment on PCR with paired samples t-test logarithm values of the PCR and came to the conclusion that the values after treatment are significantly lower with threshold of significance of 0.01. The results showed that the value of PCR before and after therapy, or achieved a response at the end of therapy, which achieved 77% of patients. The values of ALT in the group of patients with CHC were significantly higher than the values in the group of patients after the therapy. AST values in the patients with CHC were significantly higher than the values in the group of patients after therapy. There was a moderate correlation between ALT values at baseline and ALT values upon completion of treatment (0.5061). There was no correlation between HCV RNA PCR and ALT and AST.Conclusion:Upon completion of antiviral treatment response at the end of treatment achieved 77% of patients, regardless of the genotype of the virus. Also, regardless of the genotype of the virus antiviral therapy led to statistically significant reduction of AST and ALT, indicating a direct effect of combination therapy on virological and biochemical response with no significant link between these two studied parameters.

