23101054

Epidermal growth factor (EGF) is a 53-amino-acid growth factor (6.2 kDa) secreted by ectodermic cells, monocytes, kidneys, and duodenal glands (1). EGF stimulates growth of epidermal and epithelial cells. EGF, with at least seven other growth factors and their transmembrane receptor kinases, play important roles in cell proliferation, survival, adhesion, migration, and differentiation. The EGF receptor (EGFR) family consists of four transmembrane receptors, including EGFR (HER1/erbB-1), HER2 (erbB-2/neu), HER3 (erbB-3), and HER4 (erbB-4) (2). HER1, HER3, and HER4 comprise three major functional domains: an extracellular ligand-binding domain, a hydrophobic transmembrane domain, and a cytoplasmic tyrosine kinase domain. No ligand has been clearly identified for HER2. However, HER2 can be activated as a result of ligand binding to other HER receptors with the formation of receptor homodimers and/or heterodimers (3). HER1 as well as HER2 are overexpressed on many solid tumor cells, such as breast, non-small-cell lung, head and neck, and colon cancers (4-6). The high levels of HER1 and HER2 expression on cancer cells are associated with a poor patient prognosis because high levels are related to increased proliferation (7-10).Trastuzumab is a humanized IgG1 monoclonal antibody (mAb) against the extracellular domain of recombinant HER2 with an affinity constant (Kd) of 0.1 nM (11). 111In-Trastuzumab, Cy5.5-trastuzumab, and 68Ga-trastuzumab-F(ab')2 have been developed for imaging of human breast cancer (12-16). However, the pharmacokinetics of intact radiolabeled mAb, with high liver uptake and slow blood elimination, are generally not ideal for imaging. Smaller antibody fragments, such as Fab or F(ab')2, have better imaging pharmacokinetics because they are rapidly excreted by the kidneys. A novel class of recombinant affinity ligands (Affibody molecules) for HER2 was constructed based on a 58-amino-acid Z-domain residues from one of the IgG-binding domains of staphylococcal protein A (17). These Affibody molecules exhibit high binding affinity to HER2, with Kd values of <50 pM. Various radiolabeled HER2 Affibody molecules have been studied in terms of their ability to image HER2 in tumors [PubMed]. The synthetic Affibody molecule Cys-ZHER2:342 Affibody was targeted to HER2 and conjugated to superparamagnetic iron oxide coated with polyethylene glycol (IO-PEG) to form IO-PEG-ZHER2:342 nanoparticles (18). IO-PEG-ZHER2:342 nanoparticles were evaluated for magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in nude mice bearing human SKOV3 ovarian carcinoma tumor.

