29879746
2018 Dec
Objectives:This pilot study aimed at assessing interobserver agreement with two contrast-enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) algorithms for the diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in high-risk patients.Methods:Focal liver lesions in 55 high-risk patients were assessed independently by three blinded observers with two standardized CEUS algorithms: ESCULAP (Erlanger Synopsis of Contrast-Enhanced Ultrasound for Liver Lesion Assessment in Patients at risk) and ACR-CEUS-LI-RADSv.2016 (American College of Radiology CEUS-Liver Imaging Reporting and Data System). Lesions were categorized according to size and ultrasound contrast enhancement in the arterial, portal-venous and late phase. Interobserver agreement for assessment of enhancement pattern and categorization was compared between both CEUS algorithms. Additionally, diagnostic accuracy for the definitive diagnosis of HCC was compared. Histology and/or CE-MRI and follow-up served as reference standards.Results:55 patients were included in the study (male/female, 44/ 11; mean age: 65.9 years). 90.9 % had cirrhosis. Histological findings were available in 39/55 lesions (70.9 %). Reference standard of the 55 lesions revealed 48 HCCs, 2 intrahepatic cholangiocellular carcinomas (ICCs), and 5 non-HCC-non-ICC lesions. Interobserver agreement was moderate to substantial for arterial phase hyperenhancement (ĸ = 0.53 - 0.67), and fair to moderate for contrast washout in the portal-venous or late phase (ĸ = 0.33 - 0.53). Concerning the CEUS-based algorithms, the interreader agreement was substantial for the ESCULAP category (ĸ = 0.64 - 0.68) and fair for the CEUS-LI-RADS® category (ĸ = 0.3 - 0.39). Disagreement between observers was mostly due to different perception of washout.Conclusion:Interobserver agreement is better for ESCULAP than for CEUS-LI-RADS®. This is mostly due to the fact that perception of contrast washout varies between different observers. However, interobserver agreement is good for arterial phase hyperenhancement, which is the key diagnostic feature for the diagnosis of HCC with CEUS in the cirrhotic liver.

