29978739
2018 Dec
Objective:Huqizhengxiao (HQZX) decoction is a mixture of traditional Chinese medicines comprising 10 herbs, with inhibitory effects on hepatocarcinoma. The aim of the study is to observe the antitumor efficacy and mechanism of HQZX decoction in nude mice with hepatocellular carcinoma xenografts.Methods:HepG2-luc subcutaneous hepatocarcinoma was established in nude mice. The mice were divided into 5 groups: control, cinobufagin, HQZXS, HQZXM, and HQZXH with doses 13.52, 27.03, and 54.06 g/kg, respectively. HQZX decoction was prepared for intraperitoneal intragastric administration for 3 weeks. Tumor growth was measured with Vernier calipers and in vivo imaging system. α-Fetoprotein (AFP) was determined by radioimmunoassay. Tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) was measured with enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) assay. Telomerase activity was measured with polymerase chain reaction-ELISA. Nuclear mitosis and necrosis were observed with hematoxylin-eosin stain. Apoptotic proteins of caspase-3, Bcl-2, and Bax were examined by Western blot. Signaling molecules of ERK, mTOR, and STAT3 were measured with Luminex assay.Results:HQZX decoction showed good inhibition of HepG2-luc xenografts. Compared with control group, the relative tumor proliferation rate was less than 60% in the HQZXH and HQZXS. The tumor inhibition rate of HQZXH group reached 52% ± 15%. Relative average optical density values of the HQZXS and HQZXH groups decreased significantly. The mitotic index in HQZXS, HQZXM, and HQZXH groups decreased greatly. Telomerase activity of HQZXS was clearly reduced, and, the caspase-3 expression upregulated in HQZXH group. Bcl-2 expression was downregulated in HQZXS and HQZXH. The ratios of p-ERK/ERK and p-STAT3/STAT3 in HQZXS group were significantly downregulated.Conclusion:HQZX decoction can clearly inhibit the growth of hepatocellular carcinoma and induce tumor apoptosis. Its antitumor mechanism may be related to reducing telomerase activity and regulating the STAT3 and ERK signal pathway.
Chinese herb; ERK; STAT3; apoptosis; hepatocarcinoma; telomerase activity.
