30120929
2018 Dec 1
Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common chronic liver disease in the western countries. The histological spectrum of NAFLD includes simple steatosis, steatohepatitis, fibrosis, cirrhosis and even hepatocellular carcinoma. Nuclear receptors are a large group of ligand-dependent transcription factors that sense the environmental and endogenous changes and regulate numerous physiological and pathological processes. Accumulating evidence has suggested that a dysregulation of nuclear receptors in NAFLD may effect on the metabolism of endogenous and exogenous chemicals in the liver. The current study was designed to systematically characterize the time-dependent modulation of nuclear receptors including the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs), the constitutive androstane receptor (CAR), the pregnane X receptor (PXR), the liver X receptor (LXR), and the farnesoid X receptor (FXR) in the progression of NAFLD. Male C57BL/6 mice fed by a high fat diet were used to induce NAFLD. Hepatic steatosis, lobular inflammation, progressive fibrosis, increased hepatocyte DNA synthesis, and liver tumor formation were observed at various time points in our mouse model. During the development of hepatic steatosis (8-16 weeks), PPARα was activated as indicated by its target genes as well as the elevated peroxisomal acyl-CoA oxidase activity. The mRNA level of Pparγ was also upregulated while Pparδ gene expression was significantly reduced during the development of hepatic steatosis. PXR target gene Cyp3a11 was consistently increased 3-4-fold in addition to the increased microsomal Cyp3a enzymatic activity at all stages of NAFLD. In contrast, CAR mediated Cyp2b10 gene expression was found increased only by week 12. LXRα target genes Abcg5 and Abcg8 were significantly elevated during the whole course of NAFLD. The mRNA of Fxr was downregulated at 24 and 32 weeks in high fat diet fed mice, which might correlate with the development of progressive fibrosis at the stage of steatohepatitis. The results of our study provided a systematic evaluation of the changes of nuclear receptors and their downstream chemicalmetabolism and transport enzymes in the progression of NAFLD.
Liver; Mouse; NAFLD; NASH; Nuclear receptors; Steatosis.
