30218859
2018 Dec
Hypericum genus is traditionally known for its medicinal use and its therapeutic and antioxidant effects. However, the toxic effect of this plant has not been much explored. Our study aimed at investigating the effect of Hypericum humifusum (Hh) leaf extracts on oxidative stress parameters in male rats. For it, we first focused on the phytochemical analysis of the aqueous and methanolic extracts of Hh leaves. Hence, Wistar rats were treated per gavage for 30 days and divided into Control (1 mL/rat, distilled water), A200 group (200 mg/kg body weight (bw) aqueous extract), A400 group (400 mg/kg bw aqueous extract), M10 group (10 mg/kg bw methanolic extract), M20 group (20 mg/kg bw methanolic extract). The phytochemical analysis revealed the presence of tannins, flavonoids, steroids, carbohydrates, and phenolic compounds. Biochemical and histological investigations were performed in plasma and liver tissue. Liver tissue homogenates were used for the measurement of malondialdehyde (MDA), catalase (CAT) and superoxide dismutase (SOD) levels. At the same time, alanine transaminase (ALT), aspartate transaminase (AST) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) were assayed in plasma samples. Histological study was also conducted in liver. We showed that Hh extracts reduced relative liver weight and increased ALT, AST, LDH activities in treated groups compared to control group. These results were associated with an increase of MDA levels and a decrease of antioxidant enzyme activities (CAT and SOD) in liver tissues of treated rats. Histology of liver demonstrated several alterations showing necrosis, altered hepatocytes and lymphocyte migration mainly in A200 group and dilated sinusoids, foamy appearance of hepatocytes and lymphocyte accumulation in the other treated groups. This original work indicated that chronic consumption of Hh leaf extracts has no antioxidant effect but instead it induces oxidative stress and enhances markers of cell damage which was confirmed by histological study of liver rats.
Histology; Hypericum humifusum; Liver; Oxidative stress; Rats.
