30513065
2019 Dec
Objectives: Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and hepatitis B virus (HBV) are both worldwide health concerns with similar routes of transmission and no curative treatment to date. Coinfection is associated with increased morbidity and mortality. We aim to provide epidemiological data about HIV-HBV coinfected patients and asses if management of patients following European recommendation (EACS) was achieved in a large AIDS Reference Center in Belgium. Methods: Retrospective review of the HIV database of Saint-Pierre University Hospital in Brussels (Belgium) focusing on HIV-HBV coinfected patients in active follow-up. We classified patients in six serological profiles: (A) patients with active chronic HBV infection (HBsAg positive and HBeAg positive), (B) patients with persistent chronic HBV infection (HBsAg positive and HBeAg negative), (C) patients with isolated core antibody (isolated anti-HBc positive), (D) patients with resolved HBV infection (anti-HBc positive and anti-HBs positive), (E) vaccinated patients (anti-HBs positive), and (F) patients with all above markers negative. Chronic HBV infection (cHBV) was defined by two positive hepatitis B surface antigens (AgHBs positive) with at least 6-month intervals and chronic HBeAg positive group by a positive AgHBe (Ag HBe positive). We reviewed individual files of HIV-HBV chronically coinfected patients to assess if European recommendations in terms of HBV coinfection management were adequately followed in our center. Results: Among 2601 HIV-infected patients in active follow-up, 98 (3.8%) were chronically infected with HBV. Median age of chronically coinfected patients was 46 years with male predominance and heterosexual Africans representing the majority. Among the chronically coinfected patients, 33.7% were HBeAg positive carriers. Mean HBV DNA and ALT/AST were significantly higher in the chronic HBeAg positive (cHBeAg positive) patients compared to chronic HBeAg negative patients (cHBeAg negative). Nearly 95% of the cHBV patients were treated with two anti-HBV drugs (99% for the cHBeAg positive group), with 79% having Tenofovir (TDF) in their antiretroviral treatment history. 8% were screened for hepatitis D virus (HDV) antibodies. Liver fibrosis, upper endoscopy and alpha-foetoprotein were assessed at least once in the last 5 years in 32%, 31% and 32% of cHBV patients respectively. cHBeAg positive patients were not significantly monitored closer except for liver fibrosis assessment in 52% (p < 0.0017). Conclusion: The prevalence of cHBV coinfection in the Saint-Pierre HIV cohort is lower than in neighboring European countries. Hepatic monitoring should be reinforced in our cHBV and cHBeAg positive patients because of higher risk of progression to cirrhosis progression and hepatocellular carcinoma.
HIV-HBV coinfection; HIV/AIDS; Hepatitis; epidemiology; infectious diseases.
