30544457
2018 Dec
Rationale:Radiofrequency ablation (RFA) is a safe and effective local treatment modality with a low complication rate and is commonly used to treat hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). The clinical outcome of RFA may be closely related to the location, size, and shape of index tumors, and major complications, including hemorrhage, liver abscess, infarction, visceral organ perforation, hemothorax, pneumothorax, tumoral seeding, and hepatic failure. Cardiac tamponade is a rare and serious life-threatening complication associated with RFA. To date, a review of the medical literature reported 5 cases of cardiac tamponade after RFA for HCC. Herein, we report another case of cardiac tamponade after RFA for HCC in a 56-year-old man.Patient concerns:He had suffered from liver cirrhosis due to alcohol abuse. He had chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Magnetic resonance imaging showed a 3.0-cm exophytic subcapsular HCC in segment IVa of left hepatic lobe. As the patient was at high risk for surgery because of poor lung function, RFA was selected as the treatment of choice. The index tumor was located in the vicinity of the diaphragm and colon. During RFA procedure, thermal injury to the adjacent diaphragm and colon was minimized by introducing artificial ascites. Bleeding or tumoral seeding was prevented by ablating the electrode track during electrode retraction.Diagnosis:Two hours after RFA, the patient presented with dyspnea, chest discomfort, and low blood pressure (80/60 mm Hg), suggesting cardiac tamponade. Immediate follow-up contrast-enhanced computed tomography image depicted the slightly high attenuated hemopericardium. Transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) showed a moderate amount of pericardial effusion with tamponade and a large hematoma.Interventions:Under fluoroscopy and portable echocardiography guidance, a cardiologist immediately inserted a 7-French pigtail catheter into the pericardial space and collected more than 200 cc of bloody pericardial fluid.Outcomes:After pericardiocentesis, the patient's symptoms and hemodynamic status were dramatically improved. Follow-up TTE showed scanty amount of pericardial effusion and the drainage catheter was removed. The patient was discharged.Lessons:When treating HCC in the left lobe (especially segments II and IVa), attention should be paid to cardiac tamponade. The early diagnosis and immediate treatment of cardiac tamponade may increase the chance of cure.

