30541499
2018 Dec 12
Background:SSBP2, single-stranded DNA binding protein 2, is a subunit of the ssDNA-binding complex that is involved in the maintenance of genome stability. The majority of previous studies have suggested a tumor-suppressive role of SSBP2, which is silenced by promoter hypermethylation in several human malignancies, such as hematologic malignancies, prostate cancer, esophageal squamous cell carcinoma, ovarian cancer, and gallbladder cancer. However, an oncogenic role of SSBP2 has been suggested in glioblastoma patients. We investigated the clinicopathologic significance of SSBP2 expression in hepatocellular carcinoma.Methods:We constructed tissue microarrays consisting of 21 normal liver parenchyma and 213 hepatocellular carcinoma tissues with corresponding adjacent non-neoplastic tissues. SSBP2 expression was investigated by immunohistochemistry, and positive expression was defined as more than 10% of the tumor cells to show nuclear staining. We then analyzed the correlations between SSBP2 expression and various clinicopathologic characteristics, and further studied the role of SSBP2 in cell growth and migration.Results:Hepatocytes were negative for SSBP2 immunohistochemistry in all normal liver samples, whereas the nuclei of normal bile duct epithelium and sinusoidal endothelium were immunoreactive. Positive immunoreactivity was found in one (0.6%) out of 180 non-neoplastic liver tissue samples adjacent to the tumor and in 16 (8.5%) out of 189 hepatocellular carcinomas. Positive SSBP2 expression was significantly correlated with tumor multifocality (P = 0.027, chi-square test), high histologic grade (P = 0.003, chi-square test), and frequent vascular invasion (P = 0.001, chi-square test). Kaplan-Meier survival curves revealed that patients with SSBP2 expression had poor prognosis in both disease-free and overall survival (P = 0.004 and P = 0.026, respectively, log-rank test). SSBP2-positive tumors also had a higher Ki-67 proliferation index (P Conclusions:The minority of hepatocellular carcinomas expressed SSBP2 by immunohistochemistry, whereas normal hepatocytes were negative. SSBP2-positive hepatocellular carcinomas were significantly associated with aggressive phenotypes and poor clinical outcome.
Hepatocellular carcinoma; Immunohistochemistry; Prognosis; SSBP2; Single-stranded DNA binding protein 2.
