30544440
2018 Dec
Background:Characterized by diffuse hepatic fibrosis and nodule formation, hepatitis B cirrhosis (HBC), an important result of chronic hepatitis B development, mainly contains compensated and decompensated stage. Compensated cirrhosis can further develop into decompensated stage and hepatocellular carcinoma with serious complications and high mortality. Antiviral therapy using interferon (IFN) or nucleos(t)ide analogs (NUCs) is essential for improving the prognosis of the disease but IFN has large side effects while NUCs often develop drug resistance. Antifibrosis is also an important strategy, but currently there is no effective antifibrosis drug. Pharmacologic studies have demonstrated that oxymatrine (OM) exhibits anti-hepatitis B virus (HBV) and antifibrosis effects. An increasing number of clinical controlled studies also have found that OM combined with conventional therapy could improve the curative effect and reduce adverse events incidence in treating HBC but there is no systematic review of it. Based on the extensive collection of literature, we will use meta-analysis to assess the efficacy and safety of OM for HBC.Methods:PubMed, MEDLINE, Embase, Cochrane Library, China National Knowledge Infrastructure, Wanfang data, Chinese Scientific Journals Database (VIP), and China biomedical literature database will be searched to obtain the eligible studies published up to July 15, 2018. The primary outcome will be liver function indexes, liver fibrosis indexes, and Child-Pugh score. The secondary outcome will be hepatitis B virus DNA quantification, HBV DNA seroconversion rate, hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg) seroconversion rate, and adverse events incidence. Data analysis will be conducted using RevMan 5.3 and Stata V.9.0 software. Trial sequential analysis (TSA) will be performed to assess the risk of random error and the validity of conclusion using TSA program version 0.9 beta.Results:This systematic review will provide a high quality synthesis of OM for HBC from various evaluation aspects including liver function indexes, liver fibrosis indexes and Child-Pugh score, HBV DNA quantification, HBV DNA seroconversion rate, HBeAg seroconversion rate and adverse events incidence.Conclusion:The systematic review will provide evidence to assess the efficacy and safety of OM in the treatment of HBC.Prospero registration number:PROSPERO CRD42018095275.

