30547786
2018 Dec 14
Background:Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a major health burden in need for new medication. To identify potential drug targets a genomic study was performed in lipid-laden primary human hepatocyte (PHH) and human hepatoma cell cultures.Methods:PHH, HuH7 and HepG2 hepatoma cell cultures were treated with lipids and/or TNFα. Intracellular lipid load was quantified with the ORO assay. The Affymetrix HG-U133+ array system was employed to perform transcriptome analysis. The lipid droplet (LD) growth and fusion was determined by fluorescence microscopy. LD associated proteins were imaged by confocal immunofluorescence microscopy and confirmed by Western immunoblotting. Bioinformatics defined perturbed metabolic pathways.Results:Whole genome expression profiling identified 227, 1031 and 571 significant regulated genes. Likewise, the combined lipid and TNFα treatment of PHH, HuH7 and HepG2 cell cultures revealed 154, 1238 and 278 differentially expressed genes. Although genomic responses differed among in-vitro systems, commonalities were ascertained by filtering the data for LD associated gene regulations. Among others the LD-growth and fusion associated cell death inducing DFFA like effector C (CIDEC), perilipins (PLIN2, PLIN3), the synaptosome-associated-protein 23 and the vesicle associated membrane protein 3 were strongly up-regulated. Likewise, the PPAR targets pyruvate-dehydrogenase-kinase-4 and angiopoietin-like-4 were up-regulated as was hypoxia-inducible lipid droplet-associated (HILPDA), flotilin and FGF21. Their inhibition ameliorates triglyceride and cholesterol accumulation. TNFα treatment elicited strong induction of the chemokine CXCL8, the kinases MAP3K8, MAP4K4 and negative regulators of cytokine signaling, i.e. SOCS2&SOCS3. Live cell imaging of DsRED calreticulin plasmid transfected HuH7 cells permitted an assessment of LD growth and fusion and confocal immunofluorescence microscopy evidenced induced LD-associated PLIN2, CIDEC, HIF1α, HILPDA, JAK1, PDK4 and ROCK2 expression. Notwithstanding, CPT1A protein was repressed to protect mitochondria from lipid overload. Pharmacological inhibition of the GTPase-dynamin and the fatty acid transporter-2 reduced lipid uptake by 28.5 and 35%, respectively. Finally, a comparisons of in-vitro/NAFLD patient biopsy findings confirmed common gene regulations thus demonstrating clinical relevance.Conclusion:The genomics of fat-laden hepatocytes revealed LD-associated gene regulations and perturbed metabolic pathways. Immunofluorescence microscopy confirmed expression of coded proteins to provide a rationale for therapeutic intervention strategies. Collectively, the in-vitro system permits testing of drug candidates.
Drug targets; nuclear receptor/PPARs; LD-associated proteins; Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD); TNFα; Transcriptomics.
