30560088
2018 Dec 3
Objective: To investigate the potential biomarkers for venous metastasis of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), and briefly discuss their target genes and the signaling pathways they are involved in. Materials and Method: The dataset GSE6857 was downloaded from GEO. Significantly differentially expressed miRNAs were identified using the R package "limma," After that, the survival analysis was conducted to discover the significance of these up-regulated miRNAs for the prognosis of HCC patients. Additionally, miRNAs which were up-regulated in venous metastasis positive HCC tissues and were significant for the prognosis of HCC patients were further verified in clinical samples using RT-qPCR. The miRNAs were then analyzed for their correlations with clinical characteristics including survival time, AFP level, pathological grade, TNM stage, tumor stage, lymph-node metastasis, distant metastasis, child-pugh score, vascular invasion, liver fibrosis and race using 375 HCC samples downloaded from the TCGA database. The target genes of these miRNAs were obtained using a miRNA target gene prediction database, and their functions were analyzed using the online tool DAVID. Results: 15 miRNAs were differentially expressed in samples with venous metastasis, among which 7 were up-regulated in venous metastasis positive HCC samples. As one of the up-regulated miRNAs, hsa-miR-210 was identified as an independent prognostic factor for HCC. Using RT-qPCR, it was evident that hsa-miR-210 expression was significantly higher in venous metastasis positive HCC samples (p = 0.0036). Further analysis indicated that hsa-miR-210 was positively associated with AFP level, pathological grade, TNM stage, tumor stage and vascular invasion. A total of 168 hsa-miR-210 target genes, which are mainly related to tumor metastasis and tumor signaling pathways, were also predicted in this study. Conclusion: hsa-miR-210 might promote vascular invasion of HCC cells and could be used as a prognostic biomarker.
RT-qPCR; bioinformatics analysis; hepatocellular carcinoma; hsa-miR-210; prognosis; public gene database; venous metastasis.
