30564277
2018 Dec 15
Objective:We investigated the suppressive effect of siRNA-mediated co-inhibition of PD-1 and CTLA-4 expression on H22 hepatomas in mice.Methods:Murine H22 cells were cultured in vivo in ICR mice. An allograft tumor model was also established in another ICR mouse group. The tumor-bearing mice were randomly divided into four groups: control, single PD-1 siRNA, single CTLA-4 siRNA, and double PD-1 + CTLA-4 siRNAs. The survival time and physiological condition of the mice were observed after the injection of the siRNAs and placebo. The volume and weight of the solid tumor were measured to assess the inhibition of the tumor. To assess the effects of siRNAs on mouse immune function, the protein levels of IFN-γ and IL-10 in the blood and PD-L1 in the tumor and liver were determined using ELISA, and the mRNA levels of IFN-γ, PD-L1, PD-1, CTLA-4, IL-6 and Survivin in the tumor, liver and spleen were determined using quantitative RT-PCR. The ratios of Bax and Bcl-2 protein were determined via western blot to analyze the effect of siRNAs on tumor cell apoptosis.Results:The anti-tumor effect appeared in all groups with siRNA-mediated inhibition. The tumor growth suppression was stronger in the group with double inhibition. The weight and volume of the tumors were significantly lower and the survival rate improved in the three siRNA groups. IFN-γ levels increased but IL-10 levels decreased in the blood of the siRNA group mice compared with the results for the control group. In the tumor and spleen tissue, the IFN-γ levels significantly increased, but in the liver tissue they significantly decreased in the three siRNA groups. The results of quantitative RT-PCR showed that the mRNAs for PD-1 and CTLA-4 were downregulated in spleen tissue in the three siRNA groups, while the PD-L1 mRNA and protein levels increased significantly in the tumor, but decreased in the liver. Survivin and IL-6 mRNA levels decreased in the tumor. Western blot results showed that ratio of Bax and Bcl-2 had significantly increased. These results indicated that downregulating PD-1 and CTLA-4 could increase the body's immune response and promote apoptosis of tumor cells.Conclusion:Co-inhibiting the expressions of PD-1 and CTLA-4 can effectively suppress the growth of H22 hepatoma and promote the apoptosis of tumor cells in mice. Blocking PD-1 and CTLA-4 can improve the vitality of T cells, and improve the immune environment and response.
CTLA -4; H22; IFN-γ; Immune; PD-1; siRNA.
