30788203
2018 Dec 11
Introduction According to the Surveillance, Epidemiology and End Results (SEER) data, cancerous involvement of the liver is on an increase over the last three decades. It occurs worldwide in all races and carries a poor prognosis. Currently, considerable progress has been made in patient selection, staging, surgery, chemotherapy agents, and stereotactic radiotherapy in both primary and metastatic liver cancers with improved outcomes. While there is evidence of the prognostic factors of liver function, the involvement of the portal vein, inferior vena cava thrombosis, lesion size, radiation dose, number of fractions, and SBRT techniques, there is no study evaluating outcomes with the location of the lesion. Our aim in this retrospective study was to explore the correlation of tumor location from the portal vein bifurcation (vascular wall) and the radiotherapy outcome (survival) in hepatocellular cancer. Methods Contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT) studies in 86 patients with liver cancer were retrospectively reviewed in an institutional review board (IRB)-approved database to determine the distance to the bifurcation point of the portal vein from tumor's centre of mass (distance tumor bifurcation: DTB) and from the edge point of the planning target volume closest to the bifurcation (distance edge bifurcation: DEB). The mean dose to the sphere of 1 cm diameter around the bifurcation point (mean dose at bifurcation: MDB) was calculated. These parameters were tested as predictors of patient outcomes using univariate and multivariate analysis as two groups of patients. Results Only the DEB correlation with survival for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) was found to be significant (P = 0.028). A larger MDB is caused by a smaller DTB and a smaller DEB. The hazard ratio for DTB, DEB, and MDB were 0.48, 0.41, and 1.05, respectively. The DEB was found to be a better predictor of outcomes (overall survival) compared to the DTB and MDB parameters. The close proximity of the tumor to the blood supply vessels was a decisive factor. The DTB parameter is also dependent on the size of the tumor and this factor weakens the correlation of this parameter on survival data. The inclusion of the dosimetric and geometric location, as well as distance parameters in predictive models for liver cancer patients, was shown to benefit the pre-selection of treatment options for liver cancer patients treated with radiotherapy. Conclusion For hepatocellular cancer patients, the distance between the edge point of the planning treatment volume (PTV) to the portal vein bifurcation (DEB) of more than 2 cm was found to be a predictor of survival.
hepatic cancer; radiation therapy; treatment outcome prognosis.
