28457903
2017 Aug
Background:Bile leakage is a common complication after hepatic resection [1-4] (Donadon et al., 2016; Dechene et al., 2014; Zimmitti et al., 2013; Yabe et al., 2016). Endotherapy is the treatment of choice for this complication except for bile leaks originating from isolated ducts; a condition resembling the post laparoscopic cholecystectomy Strasberg type C lesions [5-9] (Lillemo et al., 2000; Gupta and Chandra, 2011; Park et al., 2005; Colovic, 2009; Mutignani et al., 2002). In such cases, surgical repair is complex, often of uncertain result and with a high morbidity and mortality [1] (Donadon et al., 2016). On the other hand, percutaneous interventions (i.e. plugging the isolated duct with glue) are technically difficult and risky [7,8] (Park et al., 2005; Colovic, 2009). Endoscopy, thus far, was not considered amongst treatment options. That is because the isolated duct cannot be opacified during cholangiography and is not accessible with the usual endoscopic methods [5,6] (Lillemo et al., 2000; Gupta and Chandra, 2011).Methods:Considering the pathophysiology of this type of bile leaks, it is possible to change the pressure gradient endoscopically in order to direct bile flow from the isolated duct towards the duodenal lumen, thus creating an internal biliary fistula to restore bile flow. In order to achieve this goal, we have to perforate the biliary tree into the abdomen. The key element of endoscopic treatment is to create a direct connection between the abdominal cavity and the duodenal lumen by-passing the residual biliary tree with a new technique fully explained in the paper. Our case series (from 2011 to 2016) consists of 13 patients (eight male, five female, mean age 58 years) with fistulas from isolated ducts after various types of hepatic resection.Results:We performed sphincterotomy and placed a biliary stent with the proximal edge inside the intra-abdominal bile collection in 11 patients (eight biliary fully-covered self-expandable metal stents; three plastic stents). In the remaining two patients we successfully cannulated the involved isolated biliary duct and we placed a bridging stent (one fully covered self-expandable metal stent; one plastic stent). Technical and clinical success (considered as fistula healing) was achieved in all 13 patients (mean fistula healing time was four days). Biliary stents were removed three to six months after atrophy of the involved duct in nine cases. In two patients the stent is still in situ. Two patients died with stent in situ due to advanced cancer at 8 and 42 months respectively. Mean follow up was 18 months (range: 8-42 months).Conclusions:The described endoscopic treatment is innovative, safe and effective. It is applicable in tertiary level endoscopic centers and requires considerable expertise. This minimally invasive procedure can increase the rate of fistula healing and will eventually reduce the need for more aggressive and risky surgical procedures.
Bile leaks; ERCP; Hepatic resections; Isolated ducts.
