28627436
2017 Aug
Combination chemotherapy is a promising method of improving cancer treatment, but the distinct pharmacokinetics of combined drugs and non-specific drug distribution slow down the development in the clinic. In this study, folate (FA) receptor-targeted polymersomes with apparent bilayered lamellar structure were successfully developed to co-encapsulate a hydrophobic-hydrophilic chemotherapeutic drug pair (PTX and DOX) in a single vesicle for enhancing the combination chemotherapeutic effect. Hydrophobic PTX was loaded into the thick hydrophobic lamellar membrane by the self-assembly of triblock copolymer PCL8000-PEG8000-PCL8000, while hydrophilic DOX was encapsulated into the hydrophilic reservoir using a trans-membrane ammonium sulfate gradient method. In vitro release study indicated that the drugs were released from the polymersomes in a controlled and sustained manner. Cellular uptake study indicated that FA-targeted Co-PS had higher internalization efficiency in FA receptor-overexpressing BEL-7404 cells than non-targeted Co-PS. In vitro cytotoxicity assay demonstrated that FA-targeted Co-PS exhibited less cytotoxic effect than free drug cocktail, but suppressed the growth of tumor cells more efficiently than non-targeted Co-PS. Ex vivo imaging biodistribution studies revealed that FA-targeted Co-PS led to highly efficient targeting and accumulation in the BEL-7404 xenograft tumor. Furthermore, the in vivo antitumor study showed that the combination chemotherapy of polymersomes to BEL-7404 tumor via intravenous injection was superior to free drug cocktail treatment, and the FA-targeted Co-PS exhibited significantly higher tumor growth inhibition than non-targeted Co-PS group. Therefore, the newly developed FA-targeted co-delivery polymersomes hold great promise for simultaneous delivery of multiple chemotherapeutics and would have great potential in tumor-targeting and combination chemotherapy.Statement of significance:Combination chemotherapy is a promising method of improving cancer treatment, but the distinct pharmacokinetics of combined drugs and non-specific drug distribution slow down the development in the clinic. In our study, novel folate-targeted co-delivery polymersomes (Co-PS) were successfully developed to encapsulate a hydrophobic-hydrophilic chemotherapeutic drug pair (paclitaxel and doxorubicin) into the different compartments of the vesicle. In vivo studies revealed that the combination chemotherapy of polymersomes to BEL-7404 xenograft tumor via intravenous injection was superior to free drug cocktail treatment, and the FA-targeted Co-PS exhibited significantly higher tumor growth inhibition than non-targeted Co-PS group. Therefore, the newly developed FA-targeted co-delivery polymersomes hold great promise for simultaneous delivery of multiple chemotherapeutics and would have great potential in tumor-targeting and combination chemotherapy.
Co-delivery; Combination chemotherapy; Doxorubicin; Folate-receptor targeted; Paclitaxel; Polymersomes.
