28789425
2017 Aug
The efficacy of the current non-surgical treatments for advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains limited and novel treatments are required to improve patient outcomes. The majority of HCCs develop from chronically damaged tissue that contains a high degree of inflammation and fibrosis, which promotes tumor progression and resistance to therapy. Understanding the interaction between stromal components and cancer cells (and the signaling pathways involved in this interaction) could aid the identification of novel therapeutic targets. Numerous studies have demonstrated a marked association between high C-X-C chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4) expression and the invasiveness, progression and metastasis of HCC. The present review will investigate the different roles of CXCR4 in the progression of HCC and discuss possible future treatments. Through the C-X-C chemokine ligand 12 (CXCL12)/CXCR4 signaling pathway, ephrin A1 activation enhances the migration of endothelial progenitor cells to HCC to enable the neovascularization of tumors. There is an association between nuclear CXCR4 expression and the lymph node metastasis of HCC to distant areas. CXCR4 enhances cell migration in vitro and cell homing in vivo. CXCR4 levels are concentrated at the border of a tumor and in perivascular areas, inducing invasive behavior. The binding of CXCL12 to CXCR4 activates intracellular signaling pathways and induces crosstalk with transforming growth factor-β signaling, which enhances the migration of cancer cells. The CXCL12/CXCR4 axis also activates expression of matrix metalloproteinase 10, which further stimulates migration. CXCR4 is likely to crosstalk with the sonic hedgehog signaling pathway, contributing to tumor invasiveness and supporting the cancer stem-cell population; as a result, CXCR4 can be regarded as a cancer stem-cell marker. CXCR4 influences interstitial fluid flow-induced invasion. CXCR4 expression and HCC cell migration are promoted by α-fetoprotein, which activates AKT/mechanistic target of rapamycin signaling. CXCR4 also has the potential to affect sorafenib treatment for HCC. Targeting the CXCL12/CXCR4 signaling pathway may, therefore, be a promising strategy in HCC treatment.
C-X-C chemokine ligand 12; C-X-C chemokine receptor 4; hepatocellular carcinoma; progression.
