28789355
2017 Aug
Rho GDP dissociation inhibitors (GDIs) are pivotal regulators of Rho GTPases, which are essential for tumor progression, yet their role in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains poorly understood. The purpose of the present study was to assess the role of RhoGDIs in the invasiveness and migration of liver cancer, and to determine their clinical prognostic significances in HCC following liver transplantation (LT). In the present study, the expression of RhoGDIs was assessed using reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction and confirmed by western-blot analysis and immunohistochemistry. Their prognostic values were also analyzed, and determined in patients treated with LT. In addition, the functions of RhoGDIs in liver cancer cell line were studied in vitro. As a result, the downregulation of RhoGDI1 and RhoGDI2 at mRNA and protein levels were detected in HCC when compared with that of adjacent noncancerous tissues (P<0.05). However, the level of RhoGDI3 was identified to be similar in tumor and para-carcinoma tissues. Additionally, Kaplan-Meier curves demonstrated that patients with lower expression of RhoGDI1 or RhoGDI2 exhibited significantly increased risk of tumor recurrence following LT (P=0.007 and P=0.006, respectively). Cox proportional hazards model analysis revealed that the decreased expression level of RhoGDI2 was an unfavorable independent prognostic factor (hazard ratio, 3.306; P=0.001). In vitro studies involving the silencing of RhoGDI1 or RhoGDI2 demonstrated a significant increase in the migratory and invasive ability of tumor cells upon the silencing of these genes. Results from the present study indicate that RhoGDI dysregulation is a frequent event in human HCC, and that it promotes cancer progression by stimulating cell migration and invasion. RhoGDI2 may be a prognostic biomarker for patients with HCC following LT, and act as a potential therapeutic target.
Rho guanosine diphosphate dissociation inhibitors 1; RhoGDI2; hepatocellular carcinoma; liver transplantation; prognosis.
