28829785
2017 Aug 22
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the 2nd leading cause of cancer-related deaths every year globally. The most common form of treatment, hepatic arterial infusion (HAI), involves the direct injection of doxorubicin (DOX) into the hepatic artery. It is plagued with limited therapeutic efficacy and the occurrence of severe toxicities (e.g. cardiotoxicity). We aim to improve the therapeutic index of DOX delivered via HAI by loading the drug onto generation 5 (G5) poly(amidoamine) (PAMAM) dendrimers targeted to hepatic cancer cells via N-acetylgalactosamine (NAcGal) ligands. DOX is attached to the surface of G5 molecules via two different enzyme-sensitive linkages, L3 or L4, to achieve controllable drug release inside hepatic cancer cells. We previously reported on P1 and P2 particles that resulted from the combination of NAcGal-targeting with L3- or L4-DOX linkages, respectively, and showed controllable DOX release and toxicity towards hepatic cancer cells comparable to free DOX. In this study, we demonstrate that while the intratumoral delivery of free DOX (1 mg/kg) into HCC-bearing nod scid gamma (NSG) mice achieves a 2.5-fold inhibition of tumor growth compared to the saline group over 30 days, P1 and P2 particles delivered at the same DOX dosage achieve a 5.1- and 4.4-fold inhibition, respectively. Incubation of the particles with human induced pluripotent stem cell derived cardiomyocytes (hiPSC CMs) showed no effect on monolayer viability, apoptosis induction, or CM electrophysiology, contrary to the effect of free DOX. Moreover, magnetic resonance imaging revealed that P1- and P2-treated mice maintained cardiac function after intraperitoneal administration of DOX at 1 mg/kg for 21 days, unlike the free DOX group at an equivalent dosage, confirming that P1/P2 can avoid DOX-induced cardiotoxicity. Taken together, these results highlight the ability of P1/P2 particles to improve the therapeutic index of DOX and offer a replacement therapy for clinical HCC treatment.

