29109772
2017 Aug 23
Background and Aims: Recently we reported that direct injection of M1 macrophages significantly caused tumor regression in vivo. Despite the promising result, a major limitation in translating this approach is the induction of acute inflammatory response. To improve the strategy, a biocompatible scaffold for cell presentation and support is essential to control cell fate. Here, we aimed to elucidate the anti-tumor effects of a poly(ethylene glycol) diacrylate (PEGdA) and thiolated gelatin poly(ethylene glycol) (Gel-PEG-Cys) cross-linked hydrogels capsulated with M1 macrophages in both in vitro and in vivo disease models. Methods: Hydrogels were made at 0.5% (w/v) Iragcure 2959 photoinitiator, 10% (w/v) PEGdA, and 10% (w/v) Gel-PEG-Cys. Monocytic THP-1 cells were loaded into hydrogels and differentiated into M1 macrophages with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and interferon gamma (IFN-γ). The M1 hydrogels were then cocultivated with HCC cell-lines Hep3B and MHCC97L to investigate the anti-tumor capacities and the associated molecular profiles in vitro. A nude mice ectopic liver cancer model with dorsal window chamber (DWC) and a subcutaneous tumor model were both performed to validate the in vivo application of M1 hydrogels. Results: M1 hydrogels significantly decreased the viability of HCC cells (MHCC97L: -46%; Hep3B: -56.9%; P<0.05) compared to the control in vitro. In response to HCC cells, the hydrogel embedded M1 macrophages up-regulated nitrite and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) activating caspase-3 induced apoptosis in the tumor cells. Increased tumor necrosis was observed in DWC filled with M1 hydrogels. In addition, mice treated with M1 hydrogels exhibited a significant 2.4-fold decrease in signal intensity of subcutaneous HCC tumor compared to control (P=0.036). Conclusion: M1 hydrogels induced apoptosis in HCC cells and tumor regression in vivo. Continuous development of the scaffold-based cancer immunotherapy may provide an alternative and innovative strategy against HCC.
Animal Model.; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Hydrogels; M1 hydrogels; M1 macrophages.
