31010487
2019 May
Unlike other carcinomas, hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) metastasizes to distant organs relatively rarely. In contrast, it routinely metastasizes to liver vasculature/liver, affecting portal veins 3-10 times more often than hepatic veins. This portal metastatic predominance is traditionally rationalized within the model of a reverse portal flow, due to accompanying liver cirrhosis. However, this intuitive model is not coherent with facts: 1) reverse portal flow occurs in fewer than 10% of cirrhotic patients, while portal metastasis occurs in 30-100% of HCC cases, and 2) portal vein prevalence of HCC metastasis is also characteristic of HCC in non-cirrhotic livers. Therefore, we must assume that the route for HCC metastatic dissemination is the same as for other carcinomas: systemic dissemination via the draining vessel, i.e., via the hepatic vein. In this light, portal prevalence versus hepatic vein of HCC metastasis appears as a puzzling pattern, particularly in cases when portal HCC metastases have appeared as the sole manifestation of HCC. Considering that other GI carcinomas (colorectal, pancreatic, gastric and small bowel) invariably disseminate via portal vein, but very rarely form portal metastasis, portal prevalence of HCC metastasis appears as a paradox. However, nature does not contradict itself; it is rather our wrong assumptions that create paradoxes. The 'portal paradox' becomes a logical event within the hypothesis that the formation of the unique portal venous system preceded the appearance of liver in evolution of chordates. The analysis suggests that the appearance of the portal venous system, supplying hormones and growth factors of pancreatic family, which includes insulin, glucagon, somatostatin, and pancreatic polypeptide (HGFPF) to midgut diverticulum in the early evolution of chordates (in an Amphioxus-like ancestral animal), promoted differentiation of enterocytes into hepatocytes and their further evolution to the liver of vertebrates. These promotional-dependent interactions are conserved in the vertebrate lineage. I hypothesize that selective homing and proliferation of malignant hepatocytes (i.e., HCC cells) in the portal vein environment are due to a uniquely high concentration of HGFPF in portal blood. HGFPF are also necessary for liver function and renewal and are significantly extracted by hepatocytes from passing blood, creating a concentration gradient of HGFPF between the portal blood and hepatic vein outflow, making post-liver vasculature and remote organs less favorable spaces for HCC growth. It also suggested that the portal vein environment (i.e., HGFPF) promotes the differentiation of more aggressive HCC clones from already-seeded portal metastases, explaining the worse outcome of HCC with the portal metastatic pattern. The analysis also offers new hypothesis on the phylogenetic origin of the hepatic diverticulum of cephalochordates, with certain implications for the modeling of the chordate phylogeny.
Chordate; Evolution; HCC; Hormones and growth factors pancreatic family; Liver; Paradox; Portal system; Privileged metastasis; Vertebrate.
