31053148
2019 May 3
Background:Acquired resistance to sorafenib greatly limits its therapeutic efficiency in the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Increasing evidence indicates that long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) play important roles in the resistance to anti-cancer drugs. The present study aims to explore the involvement of lncRNA SNHG1 (small nucleolar RNA host gene 1) in sorafenib resistance and how SNHG1 is associated with overexpressed microRNA-21 (miR-21) and the activated Akt pathway, which have been demonstrated to mediate this resistance in HCC cells.Methods:Sorafenib-resistant HCC (SR-HCC) cells were generated and their sorafenib-resistant properties were confirmed by cell viability and apoptosis assays. Potential lncRNAs were screened by using multiple bioinformatics analyses and databases. The expression of genes and proteins was detected by qRT-PCR, Western blot and in situ hybridization. Gene silencing was achieved by specific siRNA or lncRNA Smart Silencer. The effects of anti-SNHG1 were evaluated in vitro and in experimental animals by using quantitative measures of cell proliferation, apoptosis and autophagy. The binding sites of miR-21 and SNHG1 were predicted by using the RNAhybrid algorithm and their interaction was verified by luciferase assays.Results:The Akt pathway was highly activated by overexpressed miR-21 in SR-HCC cells compared with parental HCC cells. Among ten screened candidates, SNHG1 showed the largest folds of alteration between SR-HCC and parental cells and between vehicle- and sorafenib-treated cells. Overexpressed SNHG1 contributes to sorafenib resistance by activating the Akt pathway via regulating SLC3A2. Depletion of SNHG1 enhanced the efficacy of sorafenib to induce apoptosis and autophagy of SR-HCC cells by inhibiting the activation of Akt pathway. Sorafenib induced translocation of miR-21 to the nucleus, where it promoted the expression of SNHG1, resulting in upregulation of SLC3A2, leading to the activation of Akt pathway. In contrast, SNHG1 was shown to have little effect on the expression of miR-21, which downregulated the expression of PTEN, leading to the activation of the Akt pathway independently of SNHG1.Conclusions:The present study has demonstrated that lncRNA SNHG1 contributes to sorafenib resistance by activating the Akt pathway and its nuclear expression is promoted by miR-21, whose nuclear translocation is induced by sorafenib. These results indicate that SNHG1 may represent a potentially valuable target for overcoming sorafenib resistance for HCC.
Akt; Cellular signaling; Drug resistance; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Long non-coding RNA; MicroR-21; Small nucleolar RNA host gene 1; Sorafenib.
