31123408
2019 May 7
Background: Inositol polyphosphate 4-phosphatase type II (INPP4B) has been identified as a negative regulator of phosphatidyl inositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/Akt signaling in human several cancers. However, the expression, clinical significance and biological function of INPP4B in human hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) clinical tissues and cell lines are little known. Materials and methods: We evaluated the expression of INPP4B in 86 cases of paired human HCC samples by immunohistochemistry, and the clinical significance of INPP4B expression was analyzed. The expression of INPP4B in five HCC cell lines was detected through using quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) and western blot analyses. The role of INPP4B gene on HCC cell proliferation, apoptosis, migration, invasion as well as epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and chemoresistance was examined via INPP4B mammalian expression vector and small interfering RNA (siRNA) transfection in vitro. Western blot analysis was used to explore the downstream molecules modulated by INPP4B. Results: Immunohistochemistry analysis revealed that INPP4B was significantly downregulated in HCC tissues compared with the corresponding normal tissues. The rate of INPP4B-positive staining was markedly lower in metastatic samples than in those of non-metastatic samples. Univariate analysis showed that INPP4B expression was indicated to have a marked association with histological grades, tumor size and tumor metastasis. Moreover, INPP4B overexpression suppressed cell proliferation, migration, invasion and EMT, but induced cell apoptosis and chemosensitivity in human HCC cell lines. In contrast, INPP4B knockdown had the opposite effects on the biological behaviors of HCC cells. Furthermore, INPP4B was found to inhibit the activation of PI3K/Akt signaling in HCC cells. Conclusion: Our findings suggest that INPP4B is a tumor suppressing gene in human HCC, and might act as a novel therapeutic target for HCC patients.
INPP4B; chemoresistance; hepatocellular carcinoma; invasion; proliferation.
