31151472
2019 May 31
Background:Sorafenib is approved as a standard therapy for advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), but its clinical application is limited due to moderate therapeutic efficacy and high incidence of acquired resistance resulted from elevated levels of SDF-1/CXCR4 axis induced by prolonged sorafenib treatment. We previously demonstrated metapristone (RU486 metabolite) as a cancer metastatic chemopreventive agent targeting SDF-1/CXCR4 axis. Therefore, we hypothesized that combining sorafenib with metapristone could synergistically suppress cell proliferation, enhance anti-cancer activity and repress potential drug resistance.Methods:Changes in cellular CXCR4 expression by metapristone were analyzed by RT-PCR and western blotting. Effect of combining sorafenib with metapristone on cell viability was examined by MTT assay; combination index value was calculated to evaluate the synergistic effect of combined therapy. To overcome poor pharmacokinetics and reduce off-target toxicity, CXCR4-targeted nanoparticles (NPs) were developed to co-deliver sorafenib and metapristone into CXCR4-expressing HCC in vitro and in vivo; cell proliferation, colony formation and apoptosis assays were conducted; nude mice bearing HCC xenograft were used to examine effects of this therapeutic approach on HCC progression.Results:Here we showed metapristone significantly reduced CXCR4 expression in HCC. Combinatory chemotherapy of sorafenib with metapristone synergistically suppressed HCC proliferation and resistance. CXCR4-targeted PEGylated poly (lactic-co-glycolic acid) NPs conjugated with LFC131 (a peptide inhibitor of CXCR4), could deliver more sorafenib and metapristone into HCC via specific recognition and binding with transmembrane CXCR4, and resulted in the enhanced cytotoxicity, colony inhibition and apoptosis by regulating more Akt/ERK/p38 MAPK/caspase signaling pathways. Co-delivery of sorafenib with metapristone by the LFC131-conjugated NPs showed prolonged circulation and target accumulation at tumor sites, and thus suppressed tumor growth in a tumor xenograft model.Conclusions:In conclusion, co-delivery of sorafenib and metapristone via the CXCR4-targeted NPs displays a synergistic therapy against HCC. Our results suggest combinational treatment of chemotherapeutics offer an effective strategy for enhancing the therapeutic efficacy on carcinoma, and highlight the potential application of ligand-modified tumor-targeting nanocarriers in delivering drugs as a promising cancer therapeutic approach.
Combination therapy; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Metapristone; PLGA-PEG; SDF-1/CXCR4; Sorafenib.
