31191006
2019 May 13
Background: Sorafenib (SOR) is an anti-angiogenic chemotherapeutic that prolongs the survival rates of patients with hepatocellular carcinoma. However, SOR also damages normal vasculature and causes associated adverse events, including hand-foot syndrome and hypertension (HT). We previously reported in an animal study that vascular damage resulted in the narrowing of the normal vascular dimension area in medaka fish (Oryzias), and histidine (HIS), a major amino acid contained in dried bonito broth (DBB), prevented these changes. Therefore, in the study, we analyzed the effects of DBB and HIS on SOR-related vascular damages and associated adverse events in patients. Materials and methods: Three-dimensional (3D) vascular images of abdominal regions reconstituted from computed tomography were assessed to compare vascular diameter prior to and following SOR administration in groups receiving SOR monotherapy, DBB+SOR, and HIS+SOR. The clinical courses of hand-foot syndrome and HT and the toxicities of SOR in biochemical assays were monitored and compared between the groups. Correlations between hepatic function and SOR-related changes in the portal venous area dimension were also assessed. Results: SOR-related vascular damage revealed narrowing of the normal abdominal vasculature in the human body, which was monitored using 3D images. The damage was ameliorated by DBB and HIS, however, HIS had a more marked effect, particularly on the renal arteries and portal vein (PV). Maintenance of blood flow contributed to the maintenance of total cholesterol, prothrombin time, albumin (ALB), and renal functions. Changes in the 3D vascular area dimension of the PV and level of serum ALB were significantly correlated. The occurrences of the clinical symptoms of hand-foot syndrome and HT were lower in the DBB- and HIS-treated groups. Conclusion: Our results clearly demonstrate that DBB and HIS prevented SOR-related abdominal vascular damage and effectively maintained hepatic function, and prevented clinical symptoms and toxicity. Trial registration: This study was registered with the University Hospital Medical Information Network Clinical Trials Registry (UMIN000025937 and UMIN000026898).
albumin; dried bonito broth; hepatocellular carcinoma; histidine; sorafenib; vascular area dimension.
