31210815
2019 May 30
Background:Chronic hepatitis C virus infection represents a more frequent cause of liver cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. Statins, inhibit HCV replication in vitro, enhance the antiviral effect of the already known antiviral drugs and reduce their resistance.Aim:To determine the impact of additional therapy (treatment with Atorvastatin 20 mg) to the standard antiviral therapy (pegylated interferon alpha-peg-IFN α and ribavirin) on achieving sustained virological response (SVR).Material and methods:In the study which is comparative, open-label, prospective-retrospective, 70 patients diagnosed with chronic hepatitis C virus infection who met criteria for treatment with standard antiviral therapy combined with anti-lipemic therapy (Atorvastatin 20 mg) were included. Patients in the study were divided into two groups: one group of 35 patients receiving combination therapy (Atorvastatin + peg-IFN α + Ribavirin) and another group of 35 patients received only standard antiviral therapy. Those parameters were followed in all patients: genotyping, quantification of the virus, histological assessment of liver inflammation and fibrosis degree (before starting treatment), the presence of steatosis, laboratory analysis: hematology, liver, lipid and carbohydrate status, insulin blood level (the calculation of HOMA-IR) and body mass index (BMI) calculation. The overall treatment of the patients depends from the virus genotype, thus, patients with genotype 1 and 4 received 48 weeks standard antiviral therapy, but patients with genotypes 2 and 3 received 24 weeks of antiviral therapy. SVR was considered an undetectable level of HCV RNA levels 24 weeks after completion of antiviral therapy. The results were statistically analysed, and all results for p Results:Combination therapy leads to a slightly higher percentage of SVR (85.71%) in patients with chronic hepatitis C versus standard therapy (74.29%), but in a group of patients with genotype 3 this rate of SVR amounting to 95.83%. Combination therapy leads to significant improvement of lipid and glucose status after treatment, and in terms of side effects, there was no appearance of serious adverse events that would be a reason for discontinuation of the therapy.Conclusion:Combination therapy Atorvastatin + pegylated interferon alpha + Ribavirin leads to high rate of SVR of 95.83% in patients with chronic hepatitis C, genotype 3. Statins can be used safely in patients with chronic hepatitis C.
Hepatitis C virus infection; Pegylated interferon alpha; Ribavirin; Statins; Sustained virological response.
