31239764
2019 May 30
Background/aim: Hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) are critical determinants of liver tumor behavior such as vascular invasion, cell proliferation and migration. The apoptosis of HSCs can inhibit tumor growth and contribute to repressing hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) progression. Our study aims to investigate the impact of nuclear glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) on HSCs under hypoxic conditions and the association of nuclear GAPDH with HCC patient outcomes and tumor progression. Patients and methods: Following stable cell passage, 0.3% O2 was used to induce hypoxia. Cell proliferation and apoptosis were analyzed using 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyl-tetrazolium bromide (MTT) assays and flow cytometry, respectively. Proteins expression were detected by extracting nuclear and cytoplasmic proteins and performing Western blots. GAPDH nuclear translocation was blocked by the agent deprenyl. Immunohistochemical staining for GAPDH was investigated in 137 HCC tissue samples from our center. An analysis of the clinicopathological features, Kaplan-Meier analysis and Cox proportional hazards regression analysis were applied. Results: MTT assays and flow cytometry analyses showed that the nuclear accumulation of GAPDH led to the apoptotic death of HSCs, while blockade of this process with deprenyl significantly decreased apoptosis. Western blots revealed that deprenyl inhibited the nuclear translocation of GAPDH. An analysis of the immunohistochemical staining of HSCs in HCC tissue samples (137) revealed that nuclear GAPDH expression was significantly positively correlated with HIF-1α expression. Overall survival (OS) and time-to-recurrence (TTR) estimated by Kaplan-Meier analyses showed that patients with high HIF-1α or low nuclear GAPDH levels in HSCs had significantly poorer prognosis compared with patients with low HIF-1α or high nuclear GAPDH expression in HSCs. Moreover, patients with combined high HIF-1α/low nuclear GAPDH expression in HSCs had the worst prognosis. The Cox regression analysis revealed that the combination of nuclear GAPDH/HIF-1α expression in HSCs was an independent prognostic factor for OS and TTR in HCC patients. Conclusions: These findings provide a novel mechanism underlying the involvement of intranuclear GAPDH in hypoxia-induced HSCs apoptosis and a correlation between nuclear GAPDH levels and the clinical prognosis, which may prompt the development of a novel therapeutic strategy for HCC.
GAPDH; HCC; HSC; apoptosis; hypoxia.
