31239763
2019 May 31
Background: Our previous studies have demonstrated that diosgenin and diosgenin derivatives exhibit excellent antithrombotic activity via regulating platelet function and coagulation factor level. Platelets and blood coagulation system are highly associated with tumor hematogenous metastasis. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to evaluate whether dihydrodiosgenin (dydio) mediated-platelet inhibition or coagulation factor level modulation is involved in hepatocellular carcinoma cell (HCC) metastasis. Methods: Cell viability was examined by MTT and colony formation assays. Platelet aggregation text and morphology were used to assess dydio's role on tumor cell-induced platelet activation (TCIPA). Scratch assay, adhesion assay and Western blot were used to evaluate dydio's role on platelet-mediated metastasis. Western blot and fluorescence detection were performed to clarify dydio's role on endothelial cell (EC) function. The mice lung metastasis model was constructed to investigated dydio's function on coagulation factor and platelet-mediated metastasis. Results: This study found that pretreatment with dydio caused a significant inhibition of TCIPA. Platelets exposed to dydio significantly inhibited their adhesion to tumor cells, meanwhile, releasates of platelets that pretreated with dydio led to diminished cancer cell proliferation and migration along with the increase of epithelial markers E-cadherin and loss of mesenchymal phenotype. Additionally, ECs pretreated with dydio suppressed factor VIII (FVIII) level which in turn restrained the activation of platelets and the adhesion of cancer cells or platelets to ECs. Interestingly, our study demonstrated that FVIII could promote HCC proliferation. In vivo study revealed that mice intragastrical (i.g.) administration with dydio significantly inhibited the lung metastasis of hepal-6 cells which is highly correlated with the altered platelet function and coagulation level. Conclusion: Taken together, these results demonstrated that dydio altered platelet function and coagulation FVIII level, resulting in decreased metastatic potential of HCC. Thus, our study reveals that dydio exerts novel mechanisms of antitumor action beside its direct antitumor activity.
FVIII; endothelial cell; hepatocellular carcinoma; platelet; tumor microenvironment; ﻿d﻿ihydrodiosgenin.
