31304451
2019 May 2
Olfactomedin 4 (OLFM4) induces signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) activation by inhibiting gene associated with retinoid-interferon-induced mortality 19 (GRIM19), a strong STAT3 suppressor gene; however, the mechanisms of OLFM4 for regulating GRIM19-STAT3 cascade in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remain unclear. The functions and regulations of OLFM4, GRIM19, and STAT3 activation in HCC progression were evaluated using surgical specimens collected from 111 HCC patients or 2 HCC cell lines in vitro. Moreover, the cancer stem cell-like property of OLFM4 mediated by leucine-rich repeat-containing G protein-coupled receptor 5 (LGR5), known as an intestinal stem cell marker, was investigated. OLFM4 was increased in HCC compared with adjacent liver tissue. The multivariate analysis revealed that high OLFM4 expression was an independent factor for poor prognosis. OLFM4 expression was negatively correlated with GRIM19 expression and positively correlated with STAT3 activation in HCC, thereby increasing cell cycle progression. OLFM4 knockdown in HCC cells increased GRIM19 expression and inhibited STAT3 activation; however, after double knockdown of GRIM19 and OLFM4, STAT3 activation decreased by OLFM4 knockdown was increased again. OLFM4 knockdown increased cell apoptosis, inhibited cell proliferation, and suppressed cancer stem cell-like property in HCC cells. The incidence of hematogenous recurrence was higher in HCC patients with high OLFM4 expression, suggesting that anoikis resistance of HCC was enhanced by OLFM4. In clinical cases, LGR5 expression and CD133 expression was correlated with OLFM4 expression in HCC, leading to poor patient prognosis. In vitro, LGR5 enhanced cancer stem cell-like property by up-regulating OLFM4 through the Wnt signaling pathway. Conclusion: OLFM4 is induced by the LGR5-Wnt signaling pathway and is strongly associated with aggressive tumor progression and poor prognosis in HCC by regulating STAT3-induced tumor cell proliferation and cancer stem cell-like property. Therefore, OLFM4 is a novel prognostic predictor and a potential therapeutic target for patients with HCC.

