31303609
2019 May 28
To investigate the value of the total liver CT perfusion imaging in the evaluation of rabbit VX2 liver tumors treated with TACE and apatinib. Methods: Thirty-six rabbit VX2 liver cancer models were established and randomly divided into 4 groups. Group A: simple TACE group; Group B: simple oral administration of apatinib mesylate; Group C: TACE + oral apatinib mesylate; Group D: control group, administration of saline. CT perfusion imaging (CTPI) was performed before treatment and on the 7 and 14 days after the treatment to acquire perfusion parameters including blood flow (BF), blood volume (BV), MTT (mean transit time), surface permeability (PS), and hepatic artery fraction (HAF). One tumor rabbit was sacrificed in each group after the first perfusion scan, and the remaining tumor rabbits were sacrificed after the last perfusion scan on the 14th day of the treatment. The borders of the tumors were stained immunohistochemically, and microvascular density (MVD) was measured by anti-CD34. The differences of perfusion parameters were compared to evaluate the liver hemodynamic changes, and statistical repeated measurement variance analysist correlation analysis were performed. Results: There were no significant differences in CTPI parameters of BF, BV, MTT, HAF and PS between the 4 groups before treatment (P>0.05). After the treatment, HB, HAF and PS were decreased significantly in Group A, B, and C and slightly increased in the Group D. The value of MVD after 14 d treatment was 80.1±16.4 in Group A, 50.2±11.2 in Group B, 27.4±9.7 in Group C, 68.7±12.7 in Group D, respectively. The value of MVD in the Group C were significantly lower than that in Group A, B, and D. It showed positive correlation between BF, HAF, PS and MVD in Group B, C, and D, and there was no significant correlation between BV, MTT and MVD. It showed no significant correlation between MVD and each CTPI parameter in Group A. Conclusion: Total liver CT perfusion can quantitatively evaluate the blood perfusion information of rabbit liver VX2 tumor after TACE. TACE combined with oral apatinib can effectively inhibit tumor growth and improve the therapeutic effect of VX2 tumor.

