26656705
2015 Dec 9
High-mobility group box 1 (HMGB1) protein is a highly conserved nuclear protein involved in multiple human diseases, including infectious diseases, immune disorders, metabolic disorders, and cancer. HMGB1 is comprised of two tandem HMG boxes (the A box and the B box) containing DNA-binding domains and an acidic C-terminal peptide. It has been reported that HMGB1 enhances viral replication by binding to viral proteins. However, its role in hepatitis C virus (HCV) replication is unknown. Here, we show that HMGB1 promoted HCV replication but had no effect on HCV translation. RNA immunoprecipitation experiments indicated that the positive strand, not the negative strand, of HCV RNA interacted with HMGB1. HCV infection triggered HMGB1 protein translocation from the nucleus to the cytoplasm, in which it interacted with the HCV genome. Moreover, the A box of HMGB1 is the pivotal domain to interact with stem-loop 4 (SL4) of the HCV 5' untranslated region. Deletion of the HMGB1 A box abrogated the enhancement of HCV replication by HMGB1. Our data suggested that HMGB1 serves as a proviral factor of HCV to facilitate viral replication in hepatocytes by interaction with the HCV genome.Importance:Hepatitis C virus (HCV) is a major global health threat, affecting more than 170 million people infection worldwide. These patients are at high risk of developing severe liver diseases such as chronic hepatitis, cirrhosis, and hepatocellular carcinoma. Currently, no vaccine is available. Many host factors may be implicated in the pathogenesis of HCV-related diseases. In this study, we found a novel HCV RNA-binding protein, HMGB1, that promotes HCV RNA replication. Moreover, SL4 in the 5' untranslated region of the HCV genome is the key region for HMGB1 binding, and the A box of HMGB1 protein is the functional domain to interact with HCV RNA and enhance viral replication. HMGB1 appears to play an important role in HCV-related diseases, and further investigation is warranted to elucidate the specific actions of HMGB1 in HCV pathogenesis.

