26719248
2015 Dec 30
Hepatitis C virus (HCV) is one of the leading causes of chronic liver inflammatory disease (hepatitis), which often leads to more severe diseases, such as liver fibrosis, cirrhosis, and hepatocellular carcinoma. Liver fibrosis, in particular, is a major pathogenic consequence of HCV infection, and transforming growth factor β1 (TGF-β1) plays a key role in its pathogenesis. Several HCV proteins have been suggested to either augment or suppress the expression of TGF-β1 by HCV-infected cells. Here, we report that TGF-β1 levels are elevated in HCV-infected hepatocytes cultured in vitro and in liver tissue of HCV patients. Notably, the level of TGF-β1 in media from in vitro-cultured HCV-infected hepatocytes was high enough to activate primary hepatic stellate cells isolated from rats. This indicates that TGF-β1 secreted by HCV-infected hepatocytes is likely to play a key role in the liver fibrosis observed in HCV patients. Moreover, we showed that HCV E2 protein triggers the production of TGF-β1 by HCV-infected cells through overproduction of glucose-regulated protein 94 (GRP94).Importance:Hepatic fibrosis is a critical step in liver cirrhosis caused by hepatitis C virus infection. It is already known that immune cells, including Kupffer cells, mediate liver fibrosis. Recently, several papers have suggested that HCV-infected hepatocytes also significantly produce TGF-β1. Here, we provide the first examination of TGF-β1 levels in the hepatocytes of HCV patients. Using an HCV culture system, we showed that HCV infection increases TGF-β1 production in hepatocytes. Furthermore, we confirmed that the amount of TGF-β1 secreted by HCV-infected hepatocytes was sufficient to activate primary hepatic stellate cells. To understand the molecular basis of TGF-β1 production in HCV-infected hepatocytes, we used HCV replicons and various stable cell lines. Finally, we elucidated that HCV E2 triggered TGF-β1 secretion via GRP94 mediated NF-κB activation. This study contributes to the understanding of liver fibrosis by HCV and suggests a new potential target (GRP94) for blocking liver cirrhosis in HCV patients.

