27277769
2014 Apr
Objective:To investigate whether there are ultrasound characteristics that can suggest HCC in ultrasound surveillance of nodules in cirrhotic liver.Methods:Data from 277 patients with hepatitis B virus-related nodules in cirrhotic liver undergoing ultrasound surveillance of the nodules for malignancy were reviewed. Size of the nodules ranged 6-23 mm. The nodules were followed by color Doppler ultrasound at 3- to 6-month intervals, with focus on size, shape, echogenicity, margin, halo sign, and vasculature. Suspicious malignant nodules underwent contrast-enhanced CT/MRI, and some indeterminate nodules underwent biopsy.Results:Nodules in 189 patients were hypo/isoechoic/faint high echoic, 23 were hyperechoic, and 65 were both hypo/isoechoic/faint high echoic and hyperechoic. Forty-two patients developed hepatocellular carcinoma: 35 from nodules and 7 from background parenchyma. Fourteen nodules recessed (size >10 mm), 11 new nodules emerged (size >10 mm), and the total number of nodules increased over 5 years. All hepatocellular carcinomas developed from hypo/isoechoic/faint high echoic nodules, and no typical hyperechoic nodules developed into hepatocellular carcinomas. The size increased significantly when the nodules developed into hepatocellular carcinomas. No nodule presented an overt halo, seven hepatocellular carcinomas developed from nodules with a halo, and ill-defined margins of 16 nodules became well defined when they developed into hepatocellular carcinomas. No vasculature was detectable in the nodules, while it was detectable in eight hepatocellular carcinomas. No significant change occurred in nodules without malignancy.Conclusion:The characteristics for dynamic surveillance of nodules in cirrhotic liver for malignancy should include nodule growth, margin, halo, and vasculature. Apart from evident growth, an ill-defined margin becoming a well-defined margin, a newly emerged halo, and newly detectable vasculature are strongly suggestive of nodule malignancy.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC); Liver cirrhosis; Nodule; Surveillance; Ultrasound.
