29774579
2018 Oct
There is an urgent need to develop more effective therapies for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) because of its aggressiveness. Guadecitabine (SGI-110) is a second-generation DNA methyltransferase inhibitor (DNMTi), which is currently in clinical trials for HCC and shows greater stability and performance over first-generation DNMTis. In order to identify potential therapeutic targets of SGI-110 for clinical trials, HCC cell lines (SNU398, HepG2, and SNU475) were used to evaluate the effects of transient SGI-110 treatment by an integrative analysis of DNA methylation, nucleosome accessibility, gene expression profiles, and its clinical relevance by comparison to The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) HCC clinical data. Each HCC cell line represents a different DNA methylation subtype of primary HCC tumors based on TCGA data. After SGI-110 treatment, all cell lines were sensitive to SGI-110 with prolonged antiproliferation effects. Expression of up-regulated genes, including tumor suppressors, was positively correlated with nucleosome accessibility and negatively correlated with gene promoter DNA methylation. Alternatively, expression of down-regulated genes, such as oncogenes, was negatively correlated with nucleosome accessibility and positively correlated with gene body DNA methylation. SGI-110 can also act as a dual inhibitor to down-regulate polycomb repressive complex 2 (PRC2) genes by demethylating their gene bodies, resulting in reactivation of PRC2 repressed genes without involvement of DNA methylation. Furthermore, it can up-regulate endogenous retroviruses to reactivate immune pathways. Finally, about 48% of frequently altered genes in primary HCC tumors can be reversed by SGI-110 treatment.Conclusion:Our integrative analysis has successfully linked the antitumor effects of SGI-110 to detailed epigenetic alterations in HCC cells, identified potential therapeutic targets, and provided a rationale for combination treatments of SGI-110 with immune checkpoint therapies.

