29917271
2018 Oct
Hepatofibrosis is an important susceptibility factor for hepatocarcinogenesis. However, only a handful of cases of hepatofibrosis will develop into hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). As cytochrome P450 2E1 (CYP2E1) is involved in the metabolism and activation of many known environmental toxicants and procarcinogens, this enzyme may play a role in the development of hepatocarcinogenesis subsequent to hepatofibrosis. Herein, we evaluated whether higher CYP2E1 activity is a risk factor for the development of hepatocarcinogenesis from hepatofibrosis. CYP2E1 activity in fibrotic tissues from 72 HCC patients and in normal liver tissues from 59 control subjects was determined along with the severity of hepatofibrosis in hepatocarcinogenesis patients. Similarly, using a rat diethylnitrosamine-induced hepatocarcinogenesis model, CYP2E1 activity at the hepatofibrosis and hepatocarcinogenesis stages was determined, the correlation between CYP2E1 activity at the hepatofibrosis stage and hepatocarcinogenesis was explored, and the impact of inhibition of CYP2E1 activity on hepatocarcinogenesis was studied. The results showed that while CYP2E1 activity in HCC patients with underlying hepatofibrosis was increased, the severity of hepatofibrosis did not correlate with CYP2E1 activity. In the rat hepatocarcinogenesis model, unexpectedly, CYP2E1 activity was found to decrease from hepatofibrosis to hepatocarcinogenesis. Importantly, however, hepatofibrotic rats with higher CYP2E1 activity developed a more severe form of HCC. Moreover, inhibition of CYP2E1 activity could decrease the occurrence and development of HCC in rats. In conclusion, higher CYP2E1 activity may be a risk factor for hepatocarcinogenesis from hepatofibrosis, which raises the possibility of screening patients with hepatofibrosis for CYP2E1 activity to better estimate their risk for hepatocarcinogenesis.
CYP2E1 activity; diethylnitrosamine; hepatic fibrosis; hepatocellular carcinoma; susceptible factor.
