30173945
2018 Oct
Objectives:Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) are a type Table of endogenous RNA longer than 200 nucleotides in length, and this kind of RNAs lack or possess limited ability of coding proteins. A large number of studies have demonstrated that lncRNAs could take part in massive biological processes, such as transcriptional activation and interference, cellular differentiation, proliferation, migration, invasion and apoptosis. The abnormal expression of lncRNAs has been clarified to play extremely important roles in various diseases, especially in human cancers. LncRNA actin filament-associated protein 1 antisense RNA 1 (AFAP1-AS1) is a newly recognized cancer-related lncRNA deriving from the antisense strand of DNA at the AFAP1 coding gene locus. A slew of new studies suggest that AFAP1-AS1 is involved in many kinds of malignant tumors. Moreover, in recent years, the dysregulated expression of AFAP1-AS1 has been confirmed to be associated with oncogenesis and tumor progression. Evidence has increasingly shown that AFAP1-AS1 could probably serve as a novel potential molecular biomarker in tumor diagnosis and therapeutic target in tumor treatment. In this review, we sum up present stage new hottest research issues in respect of the biological functions and molecular mechanisms of AFAP1-AS1 in occurrence and progression of human tumors.Materials and methods:In this review, we summarize the recent researches about the expression and molecular biological mechanisms of lncRNA AFAP1-AS1 in tumor development. Existing relevant studies are acquired and analyzed by searching Pubmed, BioMedNet, GEO database and Academic Search Elit systematically.Results:Long non-coding RNA AFAP1-AS1 is an important tumor-associated lncRNA and its aberrant expression has been found in many malignancies so far, including pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma, cholangiocarcinoma, gallbladder cancer, hepatocellular carcinoma, gastric cancer, colorectal cancer, esophageal cancer, nasopharyngeal carcinoma, lung cancer, ovarian cancer, breast cancer, retinoblastoma, laryngeal cancer, tongue squamous cell carcinoma and thyroid cancer. In addition, the dysregulated expression of AFAP1-AS1 is related to carcinogensis, overall survival (OS), disease-free survival (DFS), progression-free survival (PFS) and tumor progression containing lymph node metastasis, distant metastasis, histological grade, tumor size and tumor stage.Conclusions:A series of studies provide detailed information to understand lncRNA AFAP1-AS1 role in various human cancers. LncRNA AFAP1-AS1 is an oncogene in tumors that have been studied so far, and it may act as a useful tumor biomarker and therapeutic target.
AFAP1-AS1; Biomarker; Carcinogene; Carcinoma; Long non-coding RNA.
