30277653
2018 Oct
Extrahepatic bile duct cancer (EBDC) is a combined type of malignancy mainly consisting of extrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma and gallbladder cancer. Clinically, it is featured with latent symptoms and early metastasis, leading to a poor prognosis. Therefore, this cohort study aimed to depict the possible metastatic patterns of EBDC of diverse sub-types and evaluate the prognostic significance of diverse metastatic destinations with data from the clinical database. Relevant data of total 4061 confirmed EBDC patients diagnosed between 2010 and 2013 from the Surveillance, Epidemiology and End Results (SEER) database was obtained. We applied t test to describe the baseline data of patients included and used chi-square test to compare the distribution of distant metastatic sites. We further adopted odds ratio assess the combined metastatic patterns and compared survival difference of patients with different distal metastasis organ by Kaplan-Meier analysis. We identified totally 4061 patients over 18 years old diagnosed with extrahepatic bile tract malignancies between 2010 and 2013, with clear metastatic status and follow-up data, without primary malignancies. Liver and distant lymph (DL) are the two most common sites as a single metastasis organ. In combined metastasis patterns, bi-organ is more frequent than the other types. Lung is the organ preferentially for bi-organ metastasis, while bone and distant lymph similarly intend to co-metastasize with brain. Distal metastasis in EBDC patients indicates an extremely poor prognosis. According to the final analysis results, malignancies in extrahepatic bile duct exhibit similar metastatic patterns, suggesting that we can regard them as a unity to assess its development. Profound differences exist in distribution of distant extrahepatic metastatic sites and their combinations. Results from our studies would provide some information for follow-up strategies and future studies.
SEER; extrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma; gallbladder cancer; metastasis.
