31768342
2019 Oct
Background:Because of the rapid progression of antiviral treatment options and the increasing frequency of nonviral-related hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) due to the aging of society, the number of HCC patients with good hepatic function has been increasing and a more detailed method of assessment of hepatic function is needed. The Child-Pugh classification (CP) is used worldwide as an assessment tool for hepatic reserve function, even though it has some weaknesses. Recently, the albumin-bilirubin (ALBI) grade, calculated based on only albumin and total bilirubin, was proposed, and recent investigations have suggested that ALBI grade instead of CP can be used as an assessment tool for hepatic function as part of therapeutic strategies such as Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer staging and a practical guideline presented by the Japan Society of Hepatology as well for total staging scoring systems. There has been an increasing number of reports showing that it has better capability than CP for HCC patients who undergo not only curative but also palliative treatments. Transcatheter arterial chemoembolization (TACE) is a major palliative treatment used for unresectable HCC, and the idea of TACE-refractory status has been proposed to indicate the possibility of switching to a tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI). However, TKI administration requires a maintained hepatic reserve function, thus the importance of assessment of hepatic function in patients undergoing TACE treatments has increased. We consider that ALBI grade might also play a significant role as part of a detailed assessment of relative changes in hepatic function during treatment. In this review, we evaluate the practical usefulness of ALBI grade for assessing hepatic function and HCC prognosis.Key message:A detailed assessment of hepatic function is required for recent HCC therapeutic strategies. ALBI grade may be a powerful tool to improve treatment options for affected patients.
ALBI-T score; Albumin-bilirubin grade; Child-Pugh classification; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Modified ALBI grade; Prognosis.
