31504352
2020 Jul 27
Background:The effect of prophylactic antiviral therapy (AVT) on survival of patients with hepatitis B virus (HBV)-related hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains unknown. This study aimed to determine whether prophylactic AVT could improve long-term survival in patients undergoing transarterial chemotherapy (TAC).Methods:Between 2002 and 2016, 2860 newly diagnosed HBV-related patients with HCC treated with TAC were screened to analyze 2 groups based on prophylactic use of antivirals. Treatment effects were analyzed using propensity score (PS) matching (1:1) separately for the entire cohort and each subgroup. The primary endpoint was overall survival.Results:A total of 1547 patients met the inclusion criteria and 1084 were PS matched for the 2 groups. Median follow-up duration was 16.55 months. In the entire unmatched cohort, patients receiving prophylactic AVT survived significantly longer than those who did not. Among AVT-untreated patients, baseline high viremia and HBV reactivation during treatment were significantly associated with shorter survival. Regarding types of antivirals, survival was significantly longer for patients receiving high-potency antivirals than those receiving low-potency antivirals. Survival differed with antiviral response. In the PS-matched cohort, the prophylactic AVT group survived significantly longer than the nonprophylactic group, irrespective of viral status or tumor stage. Prophylactic AVT remained an independent factor for survival. The association of prophylactic AVT with decreased risk of mortality persisted in patient subgroups after adjusting for baseline risk factors. Sensitivity analyses also confirmed estimated treatment effects.Conclusions:Prophylactic AVT is associated with significantly improved long-term survival among patients undergoing TAC. High-potency antivirals are indicated for this approach.Hepatitis B virus-associated morbidity is a well-known complication during transarterial chemotherapy (TAC). Our large-scale study demonstrated that prophylactic therapy with high-potency antivirals provides a significantly better survival in TAC-treated patients, irrespective of baseline viremia status or tumor stage.
antiviral therapy; hepatitis B virus; hepatocellular carcinoma; intra-arterial therapy; reactivation.
