32302728
2020 Jul
Background & aims:Obesity and type 2 diabetes increase hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) incidence in humans and accelerate diethylnitrosamine (DEN)-induced hepatocarcinogenesis in mice. We investigated whether exercise reduces HCC development in obese/diabetic Alms1 mutant (foz/foz) mice and studied protective mechanisms.Methods:We measured HCC development in DEN-injected male foz/foz and wild-type (WT) littermates housed with or without an exercise wheel from week 4 until 12 or 24 weeks, and in foz/foz mice pair-fed to WT littermates. We also studied HCC development in DEN-injected Jnk1-/-.foz/foz mice generated by cross breeding, as well as their genetic controls. Dysplastic hepatocytes were identified by glutathione-S-transferase pi form (GST-pi) immunohistochemistry, liver nodules were counted, and HCC was analysed by histopathology.Results:Exercising foz/foz mice maintained similar weight as WT mice up to 10 weeks, but then gained weight and were obese by 24 weeks; a similar body weight profile was obtained by pair-feeding foz/foz mice to WT. At 12 weeks, livers of exercising foz/foz mice exhibited fewer GST-pi positive hepatocytes than sedentary counterparts; by 24 weeks, fewer exercising foz/foz mice developed HCC (15% vs. 64%, p -/-.foz/foz mice failed to develop liver tumours or HCC at 24 weeks.Conclusions:Direct effects of exercise dampen proliferation of dysplastic hepatocytes to reduce 3-month dysplastic foci and 6-month incidence of DEN-induced HCC in obese, insulin-resistant mice. The effects of exercise that potentially slow hepatocarcinogenesis include p53-mediated induction of p27 and prevention of JNK activation.Lay summary:Fatty liver disease commonly occurs alongside obesity and diabetes, contributing to rapidly increasing rates of liver cancer throughout the world. Herein, we show that exercise reduces the incidence and progression of hepatocellular carcinoma in mouse models. The effect of exercise on cancer risk was shown to be independent of changes in weight. Exercise could be a protective mechanism against liver cancer in at-risk individuals.
Cell proliferation; Insulin resistance; Liver nodules; Non-alcoholic fatty Liver disease; Tumor promotion.
