32371296
2020 Jul
The tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) sorafenib continues to be the anchor drug in the treatment of advanced stage hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Other TKIs as well as immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) have also been approved, however the response rates remain poor and heterogeneous among HCC patients, largely due to antitumor drug resistance. Studies aimed at identifying novel biomarkers and developing new strategies to improve the response to current treatment and to overcome drug resistance, are urgently needed. Germline or somatic mutations, neoantigens, and an immunotolerogenic state against constant inflammatory stimuli in the liver, are crucial for the anti-tumor response. A pharmacogenetic approach has been attempted considering germline polymorphisms in genes encoding for proteins involved in drug-targeted pathways. Single gene and comprehensive multi-gene somatic profiling approaches have been adopted in HCC to identify tumor sensitivity scores and immunogenic profiles that can be exploited for new biomarkers and innovative therapeutic approaches. However, the high genomic heterogeneity of tumors and lack of molecularly targeted agents, hamper the discovery of specific molecular markers of resistance to therapy. Adoptive cell therapy with chimeric antigen receptor redirected T (CAR-T) cells targeting specific tumor-associated antigens (TAAs) was proposed recently. The specificity of the chosen TAA, an efficient homing of CAR-T cells to the tumor site, and the ability of CAR-T cells to survive in the tumor microenvironment are central factors in the success of CAR-T therapy. The current review describes the principal systemic treatments for HCC and the molecular evidence regarding potential predictive host and somatic genetic markers, as well as the emerging strategy of liquid biopsy for disease monitoring. Novel immunotherapeutic approaches for HCC treatment, including the use of ICIs and CAR-T, as well as strategies to overcome drug resistance, are discussed.
Anticancer drug resistance; CAR-T; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Immune checkpoint inhibitors; Predictive host and somatic genetic markers; Tyrosine kinase inhibitors.
