32434082
2020 Jul 15
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the third leading cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide. Biomimetic nanoparticles (NPs) coated with cell membranes show enhanced biocompatibility and specificity for homotypic cells, and have gained considerable attention for targeted anti-tumor therapy. We constructed cancer cell-macrophage hybrid membrane-coated near infrared (NIR)-responsive hollow copper sulfide nanoparticles encapsulating sorafenib and surface modified with anti-VEGFR (CuS-SF@CMV NPs). These CuS-SF@CMV NPs expressed the characteristic membrane proteins of both cancer cells and macrophages, and selectively accumulated in cancer cells in vitro and tumors in vivo, compared to the CuS NPs. In addition, the CuS-SF@CMV NPs achieved synergistic photo-thermal and chemotherapy in cancer cells upon NIR irradiation, with 94.3% inhibition of tumor growth in a murine hepatoma model. While the initial increase in temperature rapidly killed the tumor cells, sorafenib and the anti-VEGFR antibody sustained the tumor killing effect by respectively inhibiting tumor cell proliferation and angiogenesis via the Ras/Raf/MEK/ERK and PI3K/AKT pathways. Taken together, the CuS-SF@CMV NPs have immune evasion, tumor cell targeting and drug loading capacities, along with an inherent photo-thermal conversion ability, making them ideal for synergistic photo-thermal/chemo therapy against HCC. STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE: We created cancer cell-macrophage hybrid membrane-coated hollow CuS NPs encapsulating sorafenib and surface modified with anti-VEGFR antibodies (CuS-SF@CMV). These CuS-SF@CMV NPs enhanced synergistic PTT and chemotherapy against hepatoma cells through homotypic cell targeting, immune escape and inhibition of a tumorigenic signaling pathway. A long-term inhibition of tumor growth and metastasis was achieved owing to the rapid destruction of the cancer cells through photo-thermal conversion by the CuS NPs, and sustained clearance of the tumor cells by sorafenib and anti-VEGFR antibodies. Our findings suggest that CuS-SF@CMV NPs present great treating effects in preclinical models of HCC, providing the framework for further study in clinical trials to improve patient outcome in hepatocellular carcinoma.
CuS nanoparticles; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Photothermal Therapy; Signaling Pathway; Sorafenib.
