32493816
2020 Jul 30
Sirtuin 2 (Sirt2), an NAD+-dependent protein deacetylase, deacetylates tubulin, AKT, and other proteins. Previously, we showed that Sirt2 isoform 1 (Sirt2.1) increased replication of hepatitis B virus (HBV). Here, we show that HBV replication upregulates the expression of Sirt2 primary and alternatively spliced transcripts and their respective isoforms, 1, 2, and 5. Since Sirt2 isoform 5 (Sirt2.5) is a catalytically inactive nuclear protein with a spliced-out nuclear export signal (NES), we speculated that its different localization affects its activity. The overexpression of Sirt2.5 reduced expression of HBV mRNAs, replicative intermediate DNAs, and covalently closed circular DNA (cccDNA), an activity opposite that of Sirt2.1 and Sirt2.2. Unlike the Sirt2.1-AKT interaction, the Sirt2.5-AKT interaction was weakened by HBV replication. Unlike Sirt2.1, Sirt2.5 activated the AKT/GSK-3β/β-catenin signaling pathway very weakly and independently of HBV replication. When the NES and an N-terminal truncated catalytic domain were added to the Sirt2.5 construct, it localized in the cytoplasm and increased HBV replication (like Sirt2.1 and Sirt2.2). Chromatin immunoprecipitation assays revealed that more Sirt2.5 was recruited to cccDNA than Sirt2.1. The recruitment of histone lysine methyltransferases (HKMTs), such as SETDB1, SUV39H1, EZH2, and PR-Set7, and their respective transcriptional repressive markers, H3K9me3, H3K27me3, and H4K20me1, to cccDNA also increased in Sirt2.5-overexpressing cells. Among these, the Sirt2.5-PR-Set7 and -SETDB1 interactions increased upon HBV replication. These results demonstrate that Sirt2.5 reduces cccDNA levels and viral transcription through epigenetic modification of cccDNA via direct and/or indirect association with HKMTs, thereby exhibiting anti-HBV activity.IMPORTANCE Sirt2, a predominant cytoplasmic α-tubulin deacetylase, promotes the growth of hepatocellular carcinoma; indeed, HBV replication increases Sirt2 expression, and overexpression of Sirt2 is associated with hepatic fibrosis and epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition. Increased amounts of Sirt2 isoforms 1, 2, and 5 upon HBV replication might further upregulate HBV replication, leading to a vicious cycle of virus replication/disease progression. However, we show here that catalytically inactive nuclear Sirt2.5 antagonizes the effects of Sirt2.1 and Sirt2.2 on HBV replication, thereby inhibiting cccDNA level, transcription of cccDNA, and subsequent synthesis of replicative intermediate DNA. More Sirt2.5 was recruited to cccDNA than Sirt2.1, thereby increasing epigenetic modification by depositing transcriptional repressive markers, possibly through direct and/or indirect association with histone lysine methyltransferases, such as SETDB1, SUV39H1, EZH2, and/or PR-Set7, which represses HBV transcription. Thus, Sirt2.5 might provide a functional cure for HBV by silencing the transcription of HBV.
Sirt2 isoform 5; cccDNA; epigenetic modifications; hepatitis B virus; histone lysine methyltransferases.
