32537007
2020 Jul
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common type of malignant neoplasm of the liver with high morbidity and mortality. Extensive research into the pathology of HCC has been performed; however, the molecular mechanisms underlying the development of hepatitis B virus-associated HCC have remained elusive. Thus, the present study aimed to identify critical genes and pathways associated with the development and progression of HCC. The expression profiles of the GSE121248 dataset were downloaded from the Gene Expression Omnibus database and the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified. Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Gene and Genome (KEGG) analyses were performed by using the Database for Annotation, Visualization and Integrated Discovery. Subsequently, protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks were constructed for detecting hub genes. In the present study, 1,153 DEGs (777 upregulated and 376 downregulated genes) were identified and the PPI network yielded 15 hub genes. GO analysis revealed that the DEGs were primarily enriched in 'protein binding', 'cytoplasm' and 'extracellular exosome'. KEGG analysis indicated that DEGs were accumulated in 'metabolic pathways', 'chemical carcinogenesis' and 'fatty acid degradation'. After constructing the PPI network, cyclin-dependent kinase 1, cyclin B1, cyclin A2, mitotic arrest deficient 2 like 1, cyclin B2, DNA topoisomerase IIα, budding uninhibited by benzimidazoles (BUB)1, TTK protein kinase, non-SMC condensin I complex subunit G, NDC80 kinetochore complex component, aurora kinase A, kinesin family member 11, cell division cycle 20, BUB1B and abnormal spindle microtubule assembly were identified as hub genes based on the high degree of connectivity by using Cytoscape software. In addition, overall survival (OS) and disease-free survival (DFS) analyses were performed using the Gene Expression Profiling Interactive Analysis online database, which revealed that the increased expression of all hub genes were associated with poorer OS and DFS outcomes. Receiver operating characteristic curves were constructed using GraphPad prism 7.0 software. The results confirmed that 15 hub genes were able to distinguish HCC form normal tissues. Furthermore, the expression levels of three key genes were analyzed in tumor and normal samples of the Human Protein Atlas database. The present results may provide further insight into the underlying mechanisms of HCC and potential therapeutic targets for the treatment of this disease.
bioinformatics analysis; biomarker; differentially expressed genes; hepatitis B virus; hepatocellular carcinoma.
