32565976
2020 Jul
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a highly malignant tumor associated with a poor prognosis, and the molecular mechanisms remain poorly understood. KIAA1522 expression is upregulated in various types of tumor tissue; however, its function remains unknown in HCC. Bioinformatics analysis was undertaken using Oncomine, OncoLnc and other databases, in order to determine KIAA1522 expression in HCC and to analyze its association with postoperative prognosis. Reverse transcription-quantitative PCR was performed to detect KIAA1522 mRNA expression in primary HCC and adjacent normal tissues, while KIAA1522 protein expression was assessed via immunohistochemical staining. KIAA1522 expression and clinicopathological characteristics of primary HCC were evaluated, and their association with patient prognosis was analyzed. The Oncomine database results indicated that KIAA1522 expression in HCC and normal liver tissues was significantly different. RT-qPCR analysis demonstrated that KIAA1522 mRNA expression was significantly higher in HCC tissues compared with that in adjacent normal tissues. Immunohistochemical analysis indicated that expression rate of KIAA1522 protein was significantly higher in primary HCC tissues compared with that in normal liver tissues. The OncoLnc database results demonstrated that KIAA1522 expression was significantly associated with short-term survival. Kaplan-Meier survival analysis indicated that high KIAA1522 protein expression was significantly associated with short-term survival for patients with HCC. Multivariate Cox regression analysis demonstrated that tumor size, Tumor-Node-Metastasis stage and high KIAA1522 protein expression were independent predictors of a poor prognosis in patients with primary HCC. Furthermore, high KIAA1522 expression was significantly associated with postoperative survival time in primary HCC, and thus may be a potential molecular marker for prognosis in patients with this cancer type.
KIAA1522; bioinformatic analysis; hepatocellular carcinoma; multivariate Cox regression analysis; prognosis.
