32620659
2020 Jul
Background/aim:Assessment of the biological behavior of tumors is important for choosing an appropriate cancer therapy. In hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), the biological behaviour can be assessed by tumor morphology and molecular biology. This study investigated the usefulness of tumor tissue biopsy for predicting the biological behavior of HCC.Patients and methods:We studied 43 patients who underwent hepatectomy and preoperative liver tumor biopsy for HCC. We performed clinicopathological and immunohistochemical (IHC) analyses. The expression of the following molecules was examined: regulator of G-protein signaling 5 (RGS5), glypican-3 (GPC3), keratin 19 (K19), epithelial cell adhesion molecule (EpCAM), protein induced by vitamin K absence or antagonist-II (PIVKA-II), β-Catenin, and p53.Results:There was an overall 83.7% agreement regarding tumor differentiation between the preoperative biopsy specimens and the resected specimens. The accuracy of IHC analysis was more than 70% for all molecules between the preoperative biopsy specimens and the resected specimens. The RGS5-positive biopsy cases had higher serum α-fetoprotein levels (p=0.04), a higher rate of moderately or poorly differentiated tumors (p=0.02) and portal vein invasion (p=0.0003) than the RGS5-negative biopsy cases. The GPC3-positive biopsy cases were younger (p=0.04), had higher serum PIVKA-II levels (p=0.01), and a higher rate of portal vein invasion (p=0.03) than the GPC3-negative biopsy cases. The PIVKA-II-positive biopsy cases had significantly higher serum PIVKA-II levels than the PIVKA-II-negative biopsy cases (p=0.02). The other molecular markers showed no significantly different clinical findings between the positive and negative cases.Conclusion:In HCC, there was a high agreement rate of both the histopathological and IHC findings between preoperative biopsy specimens and resected specimens. In the biopsy specimens of HCC, RGS5 and GPC3 expression were useful molecular makers for predicting portal vein invasion. Liver tumor biopsy is useful for predicting the biological behavior of HCC through histopathological and immunohistochemical findings.
Hepatocellular carcinoma; immunohistochemistry; tumor morphology.
