32669125
2020 Jul 15
Background:Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most common malignant cancers with poor prognosis and high incidence. The clinical data analysis of liver hepatocellular carcinoma samples downloaded from The Cancer Genome Atlas reveals that the THO Complex 1 (THOC1) is remarkable upregulated in HCC and associated with poor prognosis. However, the underlying mechanism remains to be elucidated. We hypothesize that THOC1 can promote the proliferation of HCC. The present study aims to identify THOC1 as the target for HCC treatment and broaden our sights into therapeutic strategy for this disease.Methods:Quantitative RT-PCR, Western blot, immunofluorescence and immunohistochemistry were used to measure gene and protein expression. Colony formation and cell cycle analysis were performed to evaluate the proliferation. The gene set enrichment analysis were performed to identify the function which THOC1 was involved in. The effects of THOC1 on the malignant phenotypes of hepatocellular cells were examined in vitro and in vivo.Results:The gene set enrichment analysis reveals that THOC1 can promote the proliferation and G2/M cell cycle transition of HCC. Similarly, experimental results demonstrate that THOC1 promotes HCC cell proliferation and cell cycle progression. The knockdown of THOC1 leads to R-loop formation and DNA damage and confers sensitivity to cisplatin. In addition, in vivo data demonstrate that THOC1 can enhance tumorigenesis by increasing tumor cell proliferation. Furthermore, virtual screening predicts that THOC1 as a direct target of luteolin. Luteolin can induce DNA damage and suppress the proliferation of HCC by targeting THOC1. Furthermore, the inhibition of THOC1 activity by luteolin enhances the chemosensitivity of HCC tumor cells to cisplatin.Conclusions:THOC1 was identified as a predictive biomarker vital for HCC-targeted treatments and improvement of clinical prognosis. Luteolin combined with cisplatin can effectively suppress HCC tumor growth, indicating a potential and effective therapeutic strategy that uses luteolin in combination with conventional cytotoxic agents for HCC treatment.
Cisplatin; Luteolin; Proliferation; R-loop; Sensitivity; THOC1.
