32679804
2020 Jul 15
Aquaporin (AQP) channels enable regulated transport of water and solutes essential for fluid homeostasis, but they are gaining attention as targets for anticancer therapies. Patterns of AQP expression and survival rates for patients were evaluated by systematic review (PubMed and Embase) and transcriptomic analyses of RNAseq data (Human Protein Atlas database). Meta-analyses confirmed predominantly negative associations between AQP protein and RNA expression levels and patient survival times, most notably for AQP1 in lung, breast and prostate cancers; AQP3 in esophageal, liver and breast cancers; and AQP9 in liver cancer. Patterns of AQP expression were clustered for groups of cancers and associated with risk of death. A quantitative transcriptomic analysis of AQP1-10 in human cancer biopsies similarly showed that increased transcript levels of AQPs 1, 3, 5 and 9 were most frequently associated with poor survival. Unexpectedly, increased AQP7 and AQP8 levels were associated with better survival times in glioma, ovarian and endometrial cancers, and increased AQP11 with better survival in colorectal and breast cancers. Although molecular mechanisms of aquaporins in pathology or protection remain to be fully defined, results here support the hypothesis that overexpression of selected classes of AQPs differentially augments cancer progression. Beyond fluid homeostasis, potential roles for AQPs in cancers (suggested from an expanding appreciation of their functions in normal tissues) include cell motility, membrane process extension, transport of signaling molecules, control of proliferation and apoptosis, increased mechanical compliance, and gas exchange. AQP expression also has been linked to differences in sensitivity to chemotherapy treatments, suggesting possible roles as biomarkers for personalized treatments. Development of AQP pharmacological modulators, administered in cancer-specific combinations, might inspire new interventions for controlling malignant carcinomas.
AQP; forest plot; metastasis; patient survival; prognosis; transcriptomics; water channel.
