32694936
2020 Jul 16
Background:Although the medical level is constantly improving, cancer is still a major disease that threatens human health, and very effective treatments have not been found. In recent years, studies have found that four-transmembrane superfamily proteins are involved in multiple stages of tumorigenesis and development, but their expression and function in tumors have not been systematically studied.Methods:We used the Oncomine database to analyze the mRNA expression levels of TSPAN family in various cancers. Then differentially expressed genes were screened out and verified by liver cancer, colorectal cancer, and gastric cancer cells by q-PCR and Western blot analysis. CCK8 and EDU analysis are used to detect cell proliferation, Cell wound scrape assay and Cell invasion assay are used to analyze cell invasion and metastasis. Nude tumor formation test used to verify the tumor suppressive effect of TSPAN7 in vivo.Results:Differential analysis of 33 TSPAN proteins revealed that a total of 11 proteins showed differential expression in 10% of independent analyses, namely TSPAN1, TSPAN3, TSPAN5, TSPAN6, TSPAN7, TSPAN8, TSPAN13, TSPAN25, TSPAN26, TSPAN29, TSPAN30. TSPAN7 is the only four-transmembrane protein with reduced expression in three types of digestive tract tumors, so we chose TSPAN7 to be selected for cellular and molecular level verification. We found that compared with normal cells, the expression of TSPAN7 in liver cancer cells was significantly reduced, while the expression of gastric and colon cancer was not significantly different from that of normal cells. In addition, we also found that the high expression of Tspan7 not only inhibited the proliferation of HCC-LM3 cells, but also inhibited its invasion and metastasis.Conclusions:Our study evaluated the expression and function of the TSPANs family in digestive cancers and explored TSPAN7 in hepatoma cells in detail. We found some members of the TSPAN family show significant expression differences between cancer and normal tissues, of which TSPAN7 may be a potential biomarker for liver cancer.
Bioinformatics analysis; Digestive system cancers; Metastasis; Proliferation; Transmembrane 4 superfamily.
