32703262
2020 Jul 23
Background:Due to its rarity, information on pulmonary metastasectomy for pulmonary metastasis from ovarian cancer is limited.Methods:Cases of pulmonary metastasectomy for ovarian cancer were collected in a multi-institutional setting and the outcomes were analyzed.Results:Among 1508 cases in which pulmonary resection was performed to treat pulmonary metastasis from tumors of various organs, 6 cases (0.4%) involved pulmonary metastasis from ovarian cancer. The mean age was 61 years (range, 39-75 years). The histological types were undifferentiated carcinoma in 2 patients, and clear cell adenocarcinoma, serous papillary cystadenocarcinoma, serous adenocarcinoma, and endometroid adenocarcinoma in 1 patient each. One patient (17%) had a history of liver metastasis at the time of pulmonary resection. The median disease-free interval was 22 months (range, 0 [synchronous]-188 months). The tumor was solitary in 5 patients (83%). The mean tumor size was 15 mm (range, 5-23 mm). All 6 patients underwent complete resection. The type of resection was wide wedge resection in 3 patients, segmentectomy in 2 patients, and lobectomy in 1 patient. Four patients (67%) received postoperative chemotherapy. Thus far, 4 patients (67%) have experienced recurrence after pulmonary resection. In terms of outcomes, 1 patient who had synchronous pulmonary metastasis with the primary tumor died in the early period after pulmonary resection, 1 patient is alive without recurrence after a short follow-up period (5 months), 3 patients have achieved mid- to long-term survival and are alive with disease (38-61 months), and 1 patient achieved long-term (61 months) disease-free survival.Conclusions:Patients with pulmonary metastasis from ovarian cancer who fulfill the eligibility criteria for pulmonary metastasectomy are rare. Pulmonary metastasectomy for ovarian cancer can provide favorable outcomes in highly selected patients. Patients with synchronous pulmonary metastasis from ovarian cancer are not good candidates for pulmonary metastasectomy.
Ovarian cancer; Pulmonary metastasis; Surgery.
