32741183
2020 Jul 10
Objective: The objective of the study was systematically summarized the current status of the hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) screening guidelines, and evaluated the HCC screening guidelines according to the authoritative framework of cancer screening guidelines of authoritative institutions, which provided important value for the formulation of HCC screening evidence-based guidelines. Methods: Literature search was conducted in multiple databases from their inception dates to January 3, 2019. In addition, we sought relevant websites further was searched to identify potentially eligible studies. Two reviewers independently screened literature and extracted data. Qualitative description of the basic information, recommendations of HCC screening, source of evidence and update progress of the HCC screening guidelines was conducted. Results: At present, there were no independent HCC screening guidelines worldwide. There were only 17 clinical practice HCC guidelines briefly provided the recommendation of HCC screening. Current HCC screening guidelines only recommended screening for high-risk groups of HCC. All guidelines have identified patients with chronic hepatitis B, hepatitis C and cirrhosis as high-risk groups for HCC. Most of guidelines recommended screening intervals was 6 months. The latest guidelines in Europe and the United States recommended ultrasound for screening HCC. The combination of ultrasound and AFP was recommended in the Asian guidelines. Currently, HCC screening guidelines mainly recommended screening strategies based on factors such as risk of HCC, accuracy of screening modality, screening cost, etc.. The key factors such as screening efficacy and safety have not yet been considered comprehensively. Conclusions: There were no independent HCC screening guidelines worldwide. Only some clinical practice HCC guidelines briefly mentioned HCC screening. Currently, the guidelines only recommend screening for high-risk groups of HCC, with a screening interval of 6 months. There are differences in screening modalities recommended by European, American and Asian guidelines for screening HCC. It is suggested that the relevant institutions should formulate the evidence-based HCC screening guidelines by referring to the theoretical framework of other authoritative other cancer screening guidelines.
Guidelines; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Screening; Systematic review.
