32774415
2020 Jul 25
Objective:To analyze the active compounds, potential targets, and diseases of JianPi Fu Recipe (JPFR) based on network pharmacology and bioinformatics and verify the potential biological function and mechanism of JPFR in vitro and in vivo.Methods:Network pharmacology databases including TCMSP, TCM-PTD, TCMID, and DrugBank were used to screen the active compounds and potential drug targets of JPFR. Cytoscape 3.7 software was applied to construct the interaction network between active compounds and potential targets. The DAVID online database analysis was performed to investigate the potential effective diseases and involved signaling pathways according to the results of the GO function and KEGG pathways enrichment analysis. To ensure standardization and maintain interbatch reliability of JPFR, High Performance Liquid Chromatography (HPLC) was used to establish a "chemical fingerprint." For biological function validation, the effect of JPFR on the proliferation and migration of CRC cells in vitro was investigated by CCK-8 and transwell and wound healing assay, and the effect of JPFR on the growth and metastasis of CRC cells in vivo was detected by building a lung metastasis model in nude mice and in vivo imaging. For the potential mechanism validation, the expressions of MALAT1, PTBP-2, and β-catenin in CRC cells and transplanted CRC tumors were detected by real-time PCR, western blot, and immunohistochemical staining analysis.Results:According to the rules of oral bioavailability (OB) > 30% and drug-likeness (DL) > 0.18, 244 effective compounds in JPFR were screened out, as well as the corresponding 132 potential drug targets. By the analysis of DAVID database, all these key targets were associated closely with the cancer diseases such as prostate cancer, colorectal cancer, bladder cancer, small cell lung cancer, pancreatic cancer, and hepatocellular carcinoma. In addition, multiple signaling pathways were closely related to JPFR, including p53, Wnt, PI3K-Akt, IL-17, HIF-1, p38-MAPK, NF-κB, PD-L1 expression and PD-1 checkpoint pathway, VEGF, JAK-STAT, and Hippo. The systematical analysis showed that various active compounds of JPFR were closely connected with Wnt/β-catenin, EGFR, HIF-1, TGFβ/Smads, and IL6-STAT3 signaling pathway, including kaempferol, isorhamnetin, calycosin, quercetin, medicarpin, phaseol, spinasterol, hederagenin, beta-sitosterol, wighteone, luteolin, and isotrifoliol. For in vitro experiments, the migration and growth of human CRC cells were inhibited by the JPFR extract in a dose-dependent way, and the expression of MALAT1, PTBP-2, β-catenin, MMP7, c-Myc, and Cyclin D1 in CRC cells were downregulated by the JPFR extract in a dose-dependent way. For in vivo metastasis experiments, the numbers of lung metastasis were found to be decreased by the JPFR extract in a dose-dependent manner, and the expressions of metastasis-associated genes including MALAT1, PTBP-2, β-catenin, and MMP7 in the lung metastases were downregulated dose dependently by the JPFR extract. For the orthotopic transplanted tumor experiments, the JPFR extract could inhibit the growth of orthotopic transplanted tumors and downregulate the expression of c-Myc and Cyclin D1 in a dose-dependent manner. Moreover, the JPFR extract could prolong the survival time of tumor-bearing mice in a dose-dependent manner.Conclusions:Through effective network pharmacology analysis, we found that JPFR contains many effective compounds which may directly target cancer-associated signaling pathways. The in vitro and in vivo experiments further confirmed that JPFR could inhibit the growth and metastasis of CRC cells by regulating β-catenin signaling-associated genes or proteins.

