32849813
2020 Jul 24
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) accounts for approximately 85-90% of all liver cancer cases and has poor relapse-free survival. There are many gene expression studies that have been performed to elucidate the genetic landscape and driver pathways leading to HCC. However, existing studies have been limited by the sample size and thus the pathogenesis of HCC is still unclear. In this study, we performed an integrated characterization using four independent datasets including 320 HCC samples and 270 normal liver tissues to identify the candidate genes and pathways in the progression of HCC. A total of 89 consistent differentially expression genes (DEGs) were identified. Gene-set enrichment analysis revealed that these genes were significantly enriched for cellular response to zinc ion in biological process group, collagen trimer in the cellular component group, extracellular matrix (ECM) structural constituent conferring tensile strength in the molecular function group, protein digestion and absorption, mineral absorption and ECM-receptor interaction. Network system biology based on the protein-protein interaction (PPI) network was also performed to identify the most connected and important genes based on our DEGs. The top five hub genes including osteopontin (SPP1), Collagen alpha-2(I) chain (COL1A2), Insulin-like growth factor I (IGF1), lipoprotein A (LPA), and Galectin-3 (LGALS3) were identified. Western blot and immunohistochemistry analysis were employed to verify the differential protein expression of hub genes in HCC patients. More importantly, we identified that these five hub genes were significantly associated with poor disease-free survival and overall survival. In summary, we have identified a potential clinical significance of these genes as prognostic biomarkers for HCC patients who would benefit from experimental approaches to obtain optimal outcome.
prognosis; differentially expression genes; enrichment analysis; hepatocellular carcinoma; survival analysis.
