32848411
2020 Jul 29
Objective:Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most frequent and lethal tumors affecting human health worldwide. The aim of this study was to investigate the anti-cancer effects of Xiaoai Jiedu Recipe (XJR) on HCC development and its underlying mechanisms.Methods:The expression of microRNA-29a (miR-29a) and signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) in HCC tissues and cells was determined by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. The proliferation, migration, and invasion of HCC cells were measured by 3-(4,5-dimethyl-2-thiazolyl)-2,5-diphenyl-2-H-tetrazolium bromide, wound-healing, and transwell assays, respectively. The regulatory relationship between miR-29a and STAT3 in HCC was predicted by TargetScan and analyzed by luciferase reporter and RNA pull-down assays. The protein expression of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-2/9 and STAT3 was detected by Western blotting. A xenograft tumor mouse model was established, and tumor weight and volume were measured.Results:The expression of miR-29a was significantly decreased in HCC tissues and cells compared with that in normal tissues and cells. The up-regulation of miR-29a was related with lymph node metastasis and tumor node metastasis stage. XJR treatment significantly increased the expression of miR-29a, decreased cell viability, migration, and invasion, and reduced the protein expression of MMP-2/9 in HCC cells in a concentration-dependent manner. The anti-tumor effect of XJR on HCC cells was reversed by treatment with miR-29a inhibitor. STAT3 was predicted as a target of miR-29a, and its expression was negatively regulated by miR-29a. Moreover, STAT3 knockdown suppressed the malignant behavior of HCC cells, and its anti-tumor function was reversed by treatment with miR-29a inhibitor. Furthermore, XJR treatment inhibited tumor growth in mice through elevating miR-29a expression and inhibiting STAT3 expression.Conclusion:XJR suppressed the development of HCC via regulating miR-29a and STAT3.
STAT3; Xiaoai Jiedu Recipe; cell behaviors; hepatocellular carcinoma; microRNA-29a.
