32849835
2020 Jul 30
The onset of liver cancer is insidious. Currently, there is no effective method for the early detection of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Transcriptomic profiles of 826 tissue samples from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO), The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), Genotype tissue expression (GTEx), and International Cancer Genome Consortium (ICGC) databases were utilized to establish models for early detection and surveillance of HCC. The overlapping differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were screened by elastic net and robust rank aggregation (RRA) analyses to construct the diagnostic prediction model for early HCC (DP.eHCC). Prognostic prediction genes were screened by univariate cox regression and lasso cox regression analyses to construct the survival risk prediction model for early HCC (SP.eHCC). The relationship between the variation of transcriptome profile and the oncogenic risk-score of early HCC was analyzed by combining Weighted Correlation Network Analysis (WGCNA), Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA), and genome networks (GeNets). The results showed that the AUC of DP.eHCC model for the diagnosis of early HCC was 0.956 (95% CI: 0.941-0.972; p < 0.001) with a sensitivity of 90.91%, a specificity of 92.97%. The SP.eHCC model performed well for predicting the overall survival risk of HCC patients (HR = 10.79; 95% CI: 6.16-18.89; p < 0.001). The oncogenesis of early HCC was revealed mainly involving in pathways associated with cell proliferation and tumor microenvironment. And the transcription factors including EZH2, EGR1, and SOX17 were screened in the genome networks as the promising targets used for precise treatment in patients with HCC. Our findings provide robust models for the early diagnosis and prognosis of HCC, and are crucial for the development of novel targets applied in the precision therapy of HCC.
diagnosis prediction model for early HCC; hepatocellular carcinoma; machine learning algorithm; survival risk prediction model for early HCC; transcriptome.
