26200606
2016 Mar
Background:Ovarian cancer's prognosis remains dire after primary therapy. Recurrence rate is disappointingly high as 60% of women with epithelial ovarian cancer considered in remission will develop recurrent disease within 5 years. Special attention to undetected peritoneal metastasis during surgery is necessary as they are the main predictive factors of recurrences. Folate Receptor α (FRα) shows promising prospects in targeting ovarian cancerous cells and intraperitoneal photodynamic therapy (PDT) could be a solution in addition to macroscopic cytoreductive surgery to treat peritoneal micrometastasis. The aim of this preclinical study is to assess the specificity of a folate-targeted photosensitizer for ovarian peritoneal micrometastasis.Methods:We used the NuTu-19 epithelial ovarian cancer cell line to induce peritoneal carcinomatosis in female Fischer 344 rats. Three groups of 6 rats were studied (Control (no photosensitizer)/Non-conjugated photosensitizer (Porph)/Folate-conjugated photosensitizer (Porph-s-FA)). Four hours after the administration of the photosensitizer, animals were sacrificed and intraperitoneal organs tissues were sampled. FRα tissue expression was evaluated by immunohistochemistry. Tissue incorporation of photosensitizers was assessed by confocal microscopy and tissue quantification.Results:FRα is overexpressed in tumor, ovary, and liver whereas, peritoneum, colon, small intestine, and kidney do not express it. Cytoplasmic red endocytosis vesicles observed by confocal microscopy are well correlated to FRα tissue expression. Photosensitizer tissue quantification shows a mean tumor-to-normal tissue ratio of 9.6.Conclusion:We demonstrated that this new generation folate-targeted photosensitizer is specific of epithelial ovarian peritoneal metastasis and may allow the development of efficient and safe intraperitoneal PDT procedure.
Folate receptor; Ovarian peritoneal carcinomatosis; Photodynamic therapy; Photosensitizer; Targeted-therapy.
