31863794
2020 May
Background & aims:Non-cytolytic cure of HBV-infected hepatocytes by cytokines, including type I interferons (IFNs), is of importance for resolving acute and chronic infection. However, as IFNs stimulate hundreds of genes, those most relevant for HBV suppression remain largely unknown. Amongst them are the large myxovirus resistance (Mx) GTPases. Human MX1 (or MxA) is active against many RNA viruses, while MX2 (or MxB) was recently found to restrict HIV-1, HCV, and herpesviruses. Herein, we investigated the anti-HBV activity of MX2.Methods:The potential anti-HBV activity of MX2 and functional variants were assessed in transfected and HBV-infected hepatoma cells and primary human hepatocytes, employing multiple assays to analyze the synthesis and decay of HBV nucleic acids. The specific roles of MX2 in IFN-α-driven inhibition of HBV transcription and replication were assessed by MX2-specific shRNA interference (RNAi).Results:Both MX2 alone and IFN-α substantially inhibited HBV replication, due to significant deceleration of the synthesis and slight acceleration of the turnover of viral RNA. RNAi knockdown of MX2 significantly reduced the inhibitory effects of IFN-α. Strikingly, MX2 inhibited HBV infection by reducing covalently closed circular DNA (cccDNA), most likely by indirectly impairing the conversion of relaxed circular DNA to cccDNA rather than by destabilizing existing cccDNA. Various mutations affecting the GTPase activity and oligomerization status reduced MX2's anti-HBV activity.Conclusion:MX2 is an important IFN-α inducible effector that decreases HBV RNA levels but can also potently inhibit HBV infection by indirectly impairing cccDNA formation. MX2 likely has the potential for therapeutic applications aimed at curing HBV infection by eliminating cccDNA.Lay summary:This study shows that the protein MX2, which is induced by interferon-α, has important anti-hepatitis B virus (HBV) effector functions. MX2 can reduce the amount of covalently closed circular DNA, which is the form of DNA that HBV uses to maintain viral persistence within hepatocytes. MX2 also reduces HBV RNA levels by downregulating synthesis of viral RNA. MX2 likely represents a novel intrinsic HBV inhibitor that could have therapeutic potential, as well as being useful for improving our understanding of the complex biology of HBV and the antiviral mechanisms of interferon-α.
Antiviral mechanism; Covalently closed circular DNA; Hepatitis B virus; Infection; Interferon; Interferon stimulated gene; Replication; Transcription.
