32004588
2020 May 10
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common cause of cancer-related mortality, and patients with HCC show poor response to currently available treatments, which demands new therapies. We recently developed a synthetic microRNA-based molecularly targeted therapy for improving HCC response to chemotherapy by eliminating drug resistance. We used ultrasound-targeted microbubble destruction (UTMD) to locally deliver microRNA-loaded nanoparticles to HCC. Since the immune microenvironment plays a crucial role in HCC disease development and response to treatment, and UTMD and microRNAs have the potential to interfere with the immune system, in this study we analyzed the immunomodulatory effects of UTMD and miRNAs in HCC. We used an immunocompetent syngeneic HCC mouse model for the study. We conducted cytokine profiling in tumor, lymph nodes, and serum of animals within the first 24 h of treatment to analyze changes in the level of pro- and antitumoral cytokines. The results showed: (1) Hepa1-6 syngeneic tumors expressed HCC-related cytokines, (2) UTMD-microRNA combination therapy triggered transient cytokine storms, and (3) delivery of microRNA-122 and anti-microRNA-21 affected the immune microenvironment by decreasing the level of GM-CSF in tumors while modulating protumoral IL-1α, IL-1β, IL-5, IL-6 and IL-17 and antitumoral IL-2 and IL-12 in tumor-proximal lymph nodes, and increasing IL-2 in the serum of tumor-bearing mice. Local delivery of targeted therapy by UTMD significantly reduced the concentration of IL-12 and IL-17 in lymph nodes of treated and contralateral tumors suggesting a systemic response. CONCLUSION: UTMD-mediated delivery of microRNA-122 and anti-microRNA-21 modulated the immune microenvironment of Hepa1-6 tumors at the level of cytokine expressions. Exploiting antitumoral immune effects could enhance the therapeutic efficacy of the proposed combination therapy for HCC.
Cytokine screening; Local drug delivery; Poly (lactic-co-glycolic acid) nanoparticles; Tumor immune response; Ultrasound-targeted microbubble destruction.
