32145332
2020 May 23
Ethnopharmacological relevance:Baccharis trimera (Less.) DC is a perennial subshrub, popularly known as "carqueja," that belongs to the Asteraceae family. Ethnobotanical studies indicate that this species is used for the treatment of diabetes and digestive and liver diseases. However, studies that sought to validate its popular use were conducted using ethanolic extracts of the plant, which does not reflect the ethnomedicinal use of this species in humans.Aim of the study:Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is characterized by triglyceride accumulation in the liver that can progress to cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. Because of the severity of this disease, less toxic and more effective therapeutic agents need to be developed. B. trimera may be a promising therapeutic alternative, but its activity against multiple risk factors for liver disease (e.g., smoking, dyslipidemia, and diabetes mellitus) has not been studied. The present study investigated the effects of an ethnomedicinal form of a B. trimera preparation in a rat model of NAFLD that is associated with multiple risk factors.Material and methods:Phytochemical analysis of the ethanolic soluble fraction of B. trimera extract was performed using ultra-performance liquid chromatography coupled to high-resolution mass spectrometry. Streptozotocin was used to induce diabetes in male Wistar rats. The rats received a 0.5% cholesterol-enriched diet and were exposed to cigarette smoke (9 cigarettes/day, 5 days/week, for 4 weeks). In the last 2 weeks, the animals were orally treated with vehicle (negative control group), B. trimera extract (30, 100, and 300 mg/kg), or insulin + simvastatin. One group of rats that was not exposed to these risk factors was also evaluated. Blood was collected for glucose, alanine aminotransferase (ALT), and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) analysis. The liver and feces were collected for lipid quantification. The liver was additionally processed for histopathological analysis.Results:The model successfully induced NAFLD and increased levels of glucose, AST, and ALT in the negative control group. Treatment with the B. trimera extract (30 and 100 mg/kg) and insulin + simvastatin decreased hepatic and fecal lipids. In contrast to insulin + simvastatin treatment, all three doses of B. trimera effectively reduced AST and ALT levels.Conclusion:B. trimera may be promising as a hepatoprotective agent against hepatic lesions that are caused by multiple risk factors.
Animal model; Diabetes mellitus; Dyslipidemia; Herbal medicine; Smoking; Steatosis.
