32188736
2020 May 18
Hepatitis B virus (HBV) chronically infects approximately 350 million people worldwide, and 600,000 deaths are caused by HBV-related hepatic failure, liver cirrhosis, and hepatocellular carcinoma annually. It is important to reveal the mechanism underlying the regulation of HBV replication. This study demonstrated that osteopetrosis-associated transmembrane protein 1 (Ostm1) plays an inhibitory role in HBV replication. Ostm1 represses the levels of HBeAg and HBsAg proteins, HBV 3.5-kb and 2.4/2.1-kb RNAs, and core-associated DNA in HepG2, Huh7, and NTCP-HepG2 cells. Notably, Ostm1 has no direct effect on the activity of HBV promoters or the transcription of HBV RNAs; instead, Ostm1 binds to HBV RNA to facilitate RNA decay. Detailed studies further demonstrated that Ostm1 binds to and recruits the RNA exosome complex to promote the degradation of HBV RNAs, and knockdown of the RNA exosome component exonuclease 3 (Exosc3) leads to the elimination of Ostm1-mediated repression of HBV replication. Mutant analyses revealed that the N-terminal domain, the transmembrane domain, and the C-terminal domain are responsible for the repression of HBV replication, and the C-terminal domain is required for interaction with the RNA exosome complex. Moreover, Ostm1 production is not regulated by interferon-α (IFN-α) or IFN-γ, and the expression of IFN signaling components is not affected by Ostm1, suggesting that Ostm1 anti-HBV activity is independent of the IFN signaling pathway. In conclusion, this study revealed a distinct mechanism underlying the repression of HBV replication, in which Ostm1 binds to HBV RNA and recruits RNA exosomes to degrade viral RNA, thereby restricting HBV replication.IMPORTANCE Hepatitis B virus (HBV) is a human pathogen infecting the liver to cause a variety of diseases ranging from acute hepatitis to advanced liver diseases, fulminate hepatitis, liver cirrhosis, and hepatocellular carcinoma, thereby causing a major health problem worldwide. In this study, we demonstrated that Ostm1 plays an inhibitory role in HBV protein production, RNA expression, and DNA replication. However, Ostm1 has no effect on the activities of the four HBV promoters; instead, it binds to HBV RNA and recruits RNA exosomes to promote HBV RNA degradation. We further demonstrated that the anti-HBV activity of Ostm1 is independent of the interferon signaling pathway. In conclusion, this study reveals a distinct mechanism underlying the repression of HBV replication and suggests that Ostm1 is a potential therapeutic agent for HBV infection.
EXO; HBV; HBV 3.5-kb and 2.4/2.1-kb RNAs; HBV RNA degradation; HBV core-associated DNA; HbeAg; HbsAg; Ostm1; RNA exosome complex; exonuclease; hepatitis B e antigen; hepatitis B surface antigen; hepatitis B virus; osteopetrosis-associated transmembrane protein 1.
