32393195
2020 May 11
Background:Recent genome-wide association studies (GWASs) have suggested several susceptibility loci of hepatitis B virus (HBV)-related hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) by statistical analysis at individual single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). However, these loci only explain a small fraction of HBV-related HCC heritability. In the present study, we aimed to identify additional susceptibility loci of HBV-related HCC using advanced knowledge-based analysis.Methods:We performed knowledge-based analysis (including gene- and gene-set-based association tests) on variant-level association p-values from two existing GWASs of HBV-related HCC. Five different types of gene-sets were collected for the association analysis. A number of SNPs within the gene prioritized by the knowledge-based association tests were selected to replicate genetic associations in an independent sample of 965 cases and 923 controls.Results:The gene-based association analysis detected four genes significantly or suggestively associated with HBV-related HCC risk: SLC39A8, GOLGA8M, SMIM31, and WHAMMP2. The gene-set-based association analysis prioritized two promising gene sets for HCC, cell cycle G1/S transition and NOTCH1 intracellular domain regulates transcription. Within the gene sets, three promising candidate genes (CDC45, NCOR1 and KAT2A) were further prioritized for HCC. Among genes of liver-specific expression, multiple genes previously implicated in HCC were also highlighted. However, probably due to small sample size, none of the genes prioritized by the knowledge-based association analyses were successfully replicated by variant-level association test in the independent sample.Conclusions:This comprehensive knowledge-based association mining study suggested several promising genes and gene-sets associated with HBV-related HCC risks, which would facilitate follow-up functional studies on the pathogenic mechanism of HCC.
Hepatitis B virus; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Knowledge-based genetic association; Susceptibility.
