32411519
2020 May 6
Backgroud:It has been shown that aberrant expression of microRNAs (miRNAs) and transcriptional factors (TFs) is tightly associated with the development of HCC. Therefore, in order to further understand the pathogenesis of HCC, it is necessary to systematically study the relationship between the expression of miRNAs, TF and genes. In this study, we aim to identify the potential transcriptomic markers of HCC through analyzing common microarray datasets, and further establish the differential co-expression network of miRNAs-TF-mRNA to screen for key miRNAs as candidate diagnostic markers for HCC.Method:We first downloaded the mRNA and miRNA expression profiles of liver cancer from the GEO database. After pretreatment, we used a linear model to screen for differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and miRNAs. Further, we used weighed gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) to construct the differential gene co-expression network for these DEGs. Next, we identified mRNA modules significantly related to tumorigenesis in this network, and evaluated the relationship between mRNAs and TFs by TFBtools. Finally, the key miRNA was screened out in the mRNA-TF-miRNA ternary network constructed based on the target TF of differentially expressed miRNAs, and was further verified with external data set.Results:A total of 465 DEGs and 215 differentially expressed miRNAs were identified through differential genes expression analysis, and WGCNA was used to establish a co-expression network of DEGs. One module that closely related to tumorigenesis was obtained, including 33 genes. Next, a ternary network was constructed by selecting 256 pairs of mRNA-TF pairs and 100 pairs of miRNA-TF pairs. Network mining revealed that there were significant interactions between 18 mRNAs and 25 miRNAs. Finally, we used another independent data set to verify that miRNA hsa-mir-106b and hsa-mir-195 are good classifiers of HCC and might play key roles in the progression of HCC.Conclusion:Our data indicated that two miRNAs-hsa-mir-106b and hsa-mir-195-are identified as good classifiers of HCC.
GEO profiles; HCC; Transcriptional factor; WGCNA; miRNA.
