32439061
2020 May
Freshwater cyanobacterial blooms have increased in geographic distribution and intensity in recent decades worldwide. Cyanotoxins produced by many of these blooms, such as microcystins, are observed to play a role in tumor promotion and have been associated with increased liver cancer rates at the population level. Exposure occurs primarily via contaminated water (ingestion, inhalation, dermal contact), either from treated drinking water or during recreation in impacted surface waters; additional sources of exposure include consumption of fresh produce grown in cyanotoxin-contaminated environments or through the consumption of seafood caught in bloom-impacted waters. The current ecological study investigates whether populations served by cyanobacterial bloom-impacted surface waters for their drinking water source have higher hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) incidence rates than those served by non-impacted surface waters and groundwater. Census tract level cancer incidence in the state of Ohio, United States was modeled using a negative binomial generalized linear model, controlling for differences in demographic composition (e.g. age, race, and income) at the census tract level. Presence of cyanobacterial blooms in surface waters was estimated using satellite multi-spectral remote sensing and in situ public water system cyanotoxin monitoring data. Census tracts estimated to be served by bloom-impacted surface waters had 14.2% higher HCC incidence rates than those served by non-bloom-impacted surface waters (incidence rate ratio, IRR: 1.142; 95% CI: 1.037-1.257). Additionally, these bloom-impacted census tracts had a 17.4% higher HCC incidence rate as compared to those estimated to receive drinking water from a groundwater source (IRR: 1.174; 95% CI: 1.101-1.252). No statistical difference was found in HCC incidence rates when comparing areas presumed to be served by non-bloom-impacted surface waters and those presumed to be served by groundwater sources. An important consideration for environmental justice, areas estimated to be served by bloom-impacted surface waters had higher levels of poverty and included a higher percentage of racial and ethnic minority populations than areas served by groundwater. These findings support the need for additional in-depth research into the potential hepatic carcinogenicity and exposures of cyanotoxins in those areas where severe blooms are chronically observed.
Cyanobacteria harmful algal bloom; Exposure routes; Liver cancer; Satellite remote sensing.
