32440804
2020 May 21.</span
Background and aims:Surgical resection for patients with intermediate hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is preferred in China, but the prognosis remains far from satisfactory. Postoperative transarterial chemoembolization (p-TACE) has been conducted prevalently to prevent recurrence, but its efficacy remains controversial. Hence, we collected the data from primary liver cancer big data (PLCBD) to investigate the clinical value of p-TACE for patients with intermediate HCC and identify the potential beneficiaries.Methods:Patients who were diagnosed with intermediate HCC between December 2012 and December 2015 were identified through the PLCBD. Disease-free survival (DFS) of patients who received p-TACE or not following radical resection was evaluated using Kaplan-Meier survival curves before and after 1:1 propensity scoring match (PSM). Subgroup analysis was conducted stratified by risk factors associated with recurrence.Results:A total of 325 intermediate HCC patients receiving radical resection were eligible in this study, including 123 patients in the p-TACE group and 202 in the non-TACE group. Median DFS in the p-TACE group was significantly longer than in the non-TACE group (23.3 months vs. 18.0 months, P = 0.016) in the whole cohort with no severe complicates, which was confirmed in a well-matched cohort (17.4 months vs. 23.3 months, P = 0.012). In addition, p-TACE was identified as an independent risk factors of DFS by multivariate Cox regression analysis before and after PSM (both P Conclusion:With the current data, we concluded that p-TACE was safe and efficient for the patients with intermediate HCC following radical resection, and male patients with hepatitis, diabetes, cirrhosis, AFP ≤ 400 ng/ml, anatomic hepatectomy, no severe surgical complication, no intraoperative transfusion, tumor number = 2, differentiation grading III, and capsule would benefit more from p-TACE.
Hepatocellular carcinoma; Radical resection; Transarterial chemoembolization.
