32455190
2020 May 6
Triclosan (TCS) has been a widely used antibacterial agent in medical and personal care products in the last few decades. Methyl TCS (MTCS) is the major biotransformation product of TCS through replacement of the hydroxyl group with methoxy. Previous studies revealed that MTCS showed reduced toxicity but enhanced environmental persistence, when compared with TCS. Till date, the toxicological molecular mechanisms of TCS and MTCS remain to be clarified. This study aimed to investigate the transcriptomic changes in HepG2 cells induced by TCS and MTCS using microarray chips and to identify key target genes and related signal pathways. The microarray data showed that there were 1664 and 7144 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in TCS- and MTCS-treated groups, respectively. Gene ontology (GO) enrichment and Kyoto Encyclopedia of genes and genomes (KEGG) analysis revealed that TCS and MTCS induced overlapping as well as distinct transcriptome signatures in HepG2 cells. Both TCS and MTCS could result in various biological responses in HepG2 cells mainly responding to biosynthetic and metabolic processes but probably through different regulatory pathways. Among the selected 50 GO terms, 9 GO terms belonging to the cellular component category were only enriched in the MTCS group, which are mainly participating in the regulation of cellular organelle's function. KEGG analysis showed that 19 and 59 pathway terms were separately enriched in TCS and MTCS groups, with only seven identical pathways. The selected 10 TCS-specific signal pathways are mainly involved in cell proliferation and apoptosis, while the selected 10 MTCS-specific pathways mainly take part in the regulation of protein synthesis and modification. The overall data suggested that MTCS induced more enriched DEGs, GO terms, and pathway terms than TCS. In conclusion, compared with TCS, MTCS presents lower polarity and stronger lipophilicity, enabling MTCS to cause more extensive transcriptomic changes in HepG2 cells, activate differentiated signal pathways, and finally lead to differences in biological responses.

