32457831
2020 May 7
Background: Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common liver malignancy and the leading cause of death in patients with cirrhosis. Various treatments for HCC are available, including transarterial chemoembolization (TACE), which is the commonest intervention performed in HCC. Radiologic tumor response following TACE is an important prognostic factor for patients with HCC. We hypothesized that, for large HCC tumors, assessment of treatment response made with automated volumetric response evaluation criteria in solid tumors (RECIST) might correlate with the assessment made with the more time- and labor-intensive unidimensional modified RECIST (mRECIST) and manual volumetric RECIST (M-vRECIST) criteria. Accordingly, we undertook this retrospective study to compare automated volumetric RECIST (A-vRECIST) with M-vRECIST and mRESIST for the assessment of large HCC tumors' responses to TACE. Methods:We selected 42 pairs of contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT) images of large HCCs. Images were taken before and after TACE, and in each of the images, the HCC was segmented using both a manual contouring tool and a convolutional neural network. Three experienced radiologists assessed tumor response to TACE using mRECIST criteria. The intra-class correlation coefficient was used to assess inter-reader reliability in the mRECIST measurements, while the Pearson correlation coefficient was used to assess correlation between the volumetric and mRECIST measurements. Results:Volumetric tumor assessment using automated and manual segmentation tools showed good correlation with mRECIST measurements. For A-vRECIST and M-vRECIST, respectively, r = 0.597 vs. 0.622 in the baseline studies; 0.648 vs. 0.748 in the follow-up studies; and 0.774 vs. 0.766 in the response assessment (P < 0.001 for all). The A-vRECIST evaluation showed high correlation with the M-vRECIST evaluation (r = 0.967, 0.937, and 0.826 in baseline studies, follow-up studies, and response assessment, respectively, P < 0.001 for all). Conclusion:Volumetric RECIST measurements are likely to provide an early marker for TACE monitoring, and automated measurements made with a convolutional neural network may be good substitutes for manual volumetric measurements.
TACE; automated segmentation; hepatocellular carcinoma; tumor response; volumetric RECIST.
