32462022
2020 May 5
ATPase family AAA domain-containing protein 2 (ATAD2), a chromatin regulator and an oncogenic transcription cofactor, is frequently overexpressed in many cancers, particularly in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). By integrating open-access online mRNA datasets and our institutional tissue data on HCC, the clinical role and functions of ATAD2 were analyzed by bioinformatic algorithms. We systematically examined ATAD2 expression in HCC based on a large sample population, integrating data from our institution and the GEO, Oncomine, and TCGA datasets. Aberrant ATAD2 expression related to pathways was identified by bioinformatic algorithms. The effects of ATAD2 downregulation on the cycle cell were also determined. A pooled analysis from 28 datasets indicated that ATAD2 overexpression was found in HCC (SMD = 8.88, 95% CI: 5.96-11.81, P < 0.001) and was correlated with poor survival. Subgroup analysis of Asian patients with a serum alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) concentration < 200 ng/ml in stage I + II showed that the ATAD2-high group had a more unfavorable overall survival (OS) rate than the ATAD2-low group. The receiver operating characteristic curve indicated that the efficiency of ATAD2 for HCC diagnosis was considerable (area under the curve = 0.89, 95% CI: 0.86-0.91). Functional analysis based on bioinformatic algorithms demonstrated that ATAD2 participates in cell division, mitotic nuclear division, DNA replication, repair, and cell cycle processes. ATAD2 knockout in HCC cells downregulated cyclin C and cyclin D1 protein levels and resulted in G1/S phase arrest in vitro. The kinesin family member C1 (KIFC1), shugoshin 1 (SGO1), GINS complex subunit 1 (GINS1), and TPX2 microtubule nucleation factor (TPX2) genes were closely related to ATAD2 upregulation. ATAD2 may interact with TTK protein kinase (TTK) to accelerate HCC carcinogenesis. ATAD2 plays a vital role in HCC carcinogenesis by disturbing the interaction between chromatin proteins and DNA. Targeting ATAD2 represents a promising method for the development of therapeutic treatments for cancer.

