32482029
2020 May 23
Objective: To investigate the differential gene expression profiles of alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) high- and low-expressing hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), and to provide a theoretical basis for the molecular mechanism and prognosis analysis of HCC. Methods: The transcriptome data and related clinical information from 368 HCC cases were obtained from the Cancer Gene Atlas (TCGA) public database. The samples were divided into AFP high expression (AFP(high)) group and low expression (AFP(low)) group according to the quartile of AFP mRNA expression, with 92 cases in each group. The differential gene analysis was carried out using the DEseq2 package in the R software. The functional and KEGG pathway enrichment analysis of the differential genes was performed using ClusterProfiler package. The protein-protein interaction network was constructed to screen hub genes using the String database and Cytoscape software. The single-sample GSEA analysis was performed to enrich and score signature gene sets using the GSVA package. And then RNAseq data and real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) were used for independent dataset validation and tissue validation. Results: The clinical analysis showed that high expression of AFP was significantly associated with poor pathological differentiation and ethnicity (P<0.05 for both). A total of 1 382 differential genes were obtained by bioinformatics analysis, of which 931 genes were up-regulated and 451 genes were down-regulated in AFP(high) group. GO enrichment analysis showed that the highly expressed genes were mainly correlated with the processes of appendage development, limb development, and skeletal system development, while lowly expressed genes were related to metabolic-related processes such as xenobiotic metabolism, steroid metabolism, and cellular response to xenobiotic stimuli. KEGG pathway enrichment analysis revealed that highly expressed genes were mainly involved in primary immunodeficiency, neuroactive ligand-receptor interaction, and cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction, while lowly expressed genes were mainly involved in retinol metabolism, chemical carcinogenesis, steroid hormone biosynthesis and other pathways. A prognostic related gene set that was consisted of AURKB, TTK, CENPA, UBE2C, HJURP, and KIF15 was identified. And the high expression of this gene set was related to the shorter recurrence-free survival and overall survival time in HCC patients, and its enrichment score was positively correlated with AFP expression (r=0.475, P<0.001). The validation results of RNAseq data were basically consistent with the TCGA data. The RT-qPCR results showed that AURKB, KIF15, and UBE2C were significantly overexpressed in HCC tissues with high AFP expression. Although the expression of AURKB, TTK, KIF15, and UBE2C was not related to recurrence-free survival and overall survival of HCC patients, there was a tendency that the patients with high AFP levels showed relatively shorter recurrence-free survival time and overall survival time. Conclusions: There is a large difference in gene expression profiles between AFP(high) and AFP(low) HCC. The prognostic signature may cooperate with AFP to promote the initiation and development of HCC. It also may explain the tumorigenesis in HCC with different AFP levels, and provide new clues for the prognosis of HCC.
Differential analysis; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Prognosis signature; α-fetoprotein.
