32536059
2020 May 20
Objective: To investigate the effect and molecular mechanism of circular RNA-UBXN7 (circ_UBXN7) on the proliferation, migration and apoptosis of hepatocellular carcinoma cells. Methods: Circ_UBXN7 expression in the tissues and cells of hepatocellular cancer was detected by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), and the relationship between circ_UBXN7 expression and clinicopathological features, including age, gender, tumor volume, pathological classification, staging, and lymph node metastasis was analyzed. The full-length sequence of circ_UBXN7 with lentivirus carrying lenti circ_UBXN7 and lenti circ_UBXN7 shRNA was constructed to transfect hepatocellular cell lines (HepG2 and Huh-7), respectively. CCK-8 experiments were performed to detect the ability of up- or down-regulation of circ_UBXN7 on the proliferation of HEPG2 and HUH-7 cells. Annexin V / PI experiment was used to detect the changes in apoptosis of HEPG2 and HUH-7 cells after up-regulation or down-regulation of circ_UBXN7 expression. JC-1 assay was used to detect the changes in mitochondrial potential energy of HEPG2 and HUH-7 cells after up-regulation or down-regulation of circ_UBXN7 expression. Transwell was used to detect the migration ability of HEPG2 and HUH-7 cells after up-regulation or down-regulation of circ_UBXN7 expression. Western blotting was used to detect the expressional change of TWIST, E-cadherin, N-cadherin and vimentin. Statistical analysis: The expression levels of circ_UBXN7 and clinicopathological features were measured by chi-square test. Two groups were compared by t-test and three groups and above were compared by single factor analysis of variance. LSD method was used for comparison between groups. Results: The expression of circ_UBXN7 in liver cancer tissues was significantly higher than adjacent tissues, and its expression level was significantly positively correlated with tumor volume, stage, and lymph node metastasis (P < 0.05). Lenti-circ_UBXN7 had up-regulated the expression of circ_UBXN7 in HEPG2 and HUH-7 cells and promoted cell proliferation. Lenti-circ_UBXN7-shRNA had down-regulated the expression of circ_UBXN7 and induced apoptosis. Lenti-circ_UBXN7-shRNA had reduced the mitochondrial membrane potential of cells. Lenti-circ_UBXN7 had promoted cell migration, while lenti-circ_UBXN7-shRNA had inhibited cell migration. Lenti-circ_UBXN7 had induced increased expression of Twist, N-cadherin, and Vimentin proteins, and reduced the expression of E-cadherin protein. Lenti-circ_UBXN7-shRNA had opposite effects on the expression levels of each protein. Starbase V2.0 software showed that miR-203a and circ_UBXN7 had potential binding sites, and miR-203a and circ_UBXN7 expression levels were negatively correlated in HEP ​​G2 and HUH-7 cells. Conclusion: circ_UBXN7 plays an important role in promoting the occurrence and development of liver cancer, and is expected to become a potential target for the treatment of liver cancer.
Carcinoma, hepatocellular; Circular RNA UBXN7; Migration; Proliferation.
