32566612
2020 May
Background:Liver resection has been widely applied as a curative measure in the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) patients. However, the high rate of postoperative recurrence observed following liver resection proposes a problem, the solution for which is yet to be well established. Microwave coagulation is a therapy that was recently proposed as an adjuvant tool. In this study, we intended to evaluate the effectiveness of microwave coagulation as an auxiliary therapeutic method for patients undergoing liver resection.Methods:A total of 236 consecutive patients classified as Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer (BCLC) stage A who had only one tumor were enrolled in this retrospective study, regardless of tumor size. Survival analyses were performed using the Kaplan-Meier method, and the statistical differences between patients who underwent liver resection with and without adjuvant microwave coagulation were examined by the log-rank test. To investigate the prognostic factors for OS, we carried out univariate and multivariate Cox regression analyses.Results:Based on the Kaplan-Meier curves, patients who underwent surgical resection with intraoperative adjuvant microwave coagulator had prolonged recurrence-free survival time and showed better overall survival (OS) than those who underwent surgical resection alone, with OS at 1, 3, and 5 years of 77.8%, 33.2%, 12.6% vs. 58.2%, 15.5%, 9.7%, respectively (log-rank P<0.001). The univariate and multivariate analyses demonstrated that tumor size, albumin, bilirubin, Child-Pugh score, and treatment method had significant prognostic power for both PFS and OS. According to the subgroup analyses based on the tumor size, there were significant differences in PFS and OS among overall subsets between the liver resection with adjuvant microwave coagulator and liver resection only groups.Conclusions:Liver resection combined with intraoperative adjuvant microwave coagulation had a better prognostic performance than treatment with liver resection alone. Adjuvant microwave coagulation should be suggested as an alternative treatment modality for BCLC stage A patients with a single tumor, regardless of its size.
Liver resection; hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC); microwave coagulation.
