32566614
2020 May
Background:Sorafenib has been recommended as the first-line treatment and shown to prolong median overall survival (OS) of patients with advanced unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Recently, a growing amount of research has supported the application of transarterial chemoembolization (TACE) in patients with advanced-stage HCC. The aim of this study was to compare the outcomes of TACE and sorafenib and identify the prognostic factors related to OS for Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer (BCLC) stage C patients with PS 1 but without vascular invasion or extrahepatic spread.Methods:A total of 323 consecutive patients in BCLC stage C with PS 1 but without vascular invasion or extrahepatic spread were enrolled in this retrospective study. Survival analyses were performed using the Kaplan-Meier analysis, and the statistical differences between the TACE and sorafenib groups were examined by the log-rank test. Univariate and multivariate Cox regression analyses were performed to investigate the prognostic factors for OS.Results:Based on the Kaplan-Meier curves, patients treated with TACE showed a better OS than those undergoing sorafenib, with respective OS at 1, 3, and 5 years (67.7%, 41.5%, 23.2% vs. 55.6%, 29.6%, 4.8%; log-rank P=0.002). The univariate analysis indicated that tumor size, tumor number, and treatment method, along with platelet (PLT), white blood cell (WBC), and α-fetoprotein (AFP) count, were associated with OS. The multivariate analysis demonstrated that tumor size, tumor number, and treatment method were significant prognostic factors for OS. According to the subgroups analyses based on the tumor size and tumor number, there were significant differences in OS among overall subsets between TACE and sorafenib therapy.Conclusions:TACE provided better prognostic performance than sorafenib and should be suggested as an alternative treatment modality to sorafenib for BCLC stage C patients with PS 1 but without vascular invasion or extrahepatic spread.
Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG); Transarterial chemoembolization (TACE); hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC); sorafenib.
