32566619
2020 May
Background:Growing evidence has proved that Forkhead box protein 3 (FOXP3), which is a master regulatory gene in the development and function of regulatory T-cells, is expressed in human cancer cells. This expression indicates the crucial role FOXP3 takes up as the disease progresses. However, its role in colorectal cancer (CRC) liver metastasis is still mostly unknown. This study set out to explore the molecular characteristics of FOXP3 in driving the liver metastasis within CRC.Methods:We downloaded the RNA-seq data from the GSE50760. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA)WGCNA and RNA-Seq analysis were applied to find the key gene network associated with colorectal cancer liver metastasis. Then we performed pathway enrichment analysis on liver metastasis-associated gene set. Immunohistochemistry, in vitro and in vivo studies were conducted to test expression and function of FOXP3 in CRC tissues and liver metastasis tissues. Non-targeted metabolomics analysis was performed to identify the alteration of FOXP3 expression in metabolites of colorectal cancer liver metastasis. Western blot was performed to confirm changes of matrix metalloproteinase 9MMP9 expression were downstream events of S-adenosyl-methionine (SAM).Results:We found that FOXP3 and MMP9 exhibited co-expression relationships and affected liver metastasis in CRC. Upregulation of FOXP3 promotes cell migration and invasion in CRC, which suggests a pro-cancer effect. Moreover, metabolomics analysis showed that knockdown of FOXP3 significantly reduced SAM levels, and changes of MMP9 expression were downstream events of SAM, which is concentration-dependent. Besides, The Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) and Western blot analysis confirmed that overexpression of FOXP3 activates the Wnt pathway to promote colon cancer metastasis.Conclusions:Our results altogether suggested that FOXP3 expression inhibited the SAM cycle to reduce SAMe levels, resulting in altered MMP9 expression and helped CRC liver metastasis.
Colorectal carcinoma (CRC); FOXP3; MMP9; liver metastasis; metabolomics; transcriptome.
