28302002
2017 Mar
Objectives:Liver transplant is a high-risk surgery for cardiac events. The risk of 30-day major cardiac adverse events is estimated at more than 5%. In this retrospective study, we evaluated our preoperative cardiac risk assessment approach.Materials and methods:We evaluated 58 adult patients who underwent liver transplant between May 2011 and May 2015. Preoperative cardiac risk factors and results of diagnostic tests were noted. Patients were divided into 2 groups: patients with or without hepatocellular carcinoma. Electrocardiogram, echocardiogram, and treadmill tests were performed for preoperative cardiac evaluation in all candidates for liver transplant. Results of these tests showed our preference for myocardial perfusion scintigraphy and/or coronary angiography and heart catheterization.Results:Mean age of patients was 46.5 ± 14.5 years. The most common cardiovascular risk factor was family history of coronary artery disease (24.1%) in all patients. Diabetes mellitus (15.5%) was the most common risk factor in the patient group without hepatocellular carcinoma. Three patients had already known coronary artery disease (5.2%). Of 16 patients (27.6%) who underwent coronary angiography, 4 were in the hepatocellular carcinoma group. Coronary revascularization by stent implantation was necessary for 1 patient in the hepatocellular carcinoma group; 1 patient in the group without hepatocellular carcinoma underwent preoperative coronary bypass surgery.Conclusions:No consensus exists for cardiovascular risk stratification and preoperative cardiovascular evaluation of liver transplant candidates. Noninvasive stress tests are not always feasible for all liver transplant candidates because of poor mobility and poor exercise capacity. With early diagnoses of cardiovascular conditions and preventive recommendations, liver transplant can be performed safely before spread of the disease, which is essential for carcinoma patients. Angiographic evaluation of liver transplant candidates for hepatocellular carcinoma is strongly recommended.

