29043599
2018 Mar
Objective:To assist decision-makers interpret and choose among conflfl icting meta-analyses, as well as to offer treatment recommendations based on current best evidence by performing a systematic review of overlapping meta-analyses regarding Shenyi Capsule (, SC) plus chemotherapy versus chemotherapy of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).Methods:A literature search was conducted to select systematic reviews comparing SC plus chemotherapy with chemotherapy for NSCLC. Meta-analyses only composed of randomized controlled trials (RCTs) met the inclusion criteria. Two authors individually estimated the quality of meta-analysis and extracted data. The Jadad decision algorithm was applied to guarantee which meta-analysis provided the best original evidence.Results:A total of 5 meta-analyses were included. All the studies composed of RCTs or quasi-RCTs and were regarded as level-II evidence. The scores of the Assessment of Multiple Systematic Reviews ranged from 3 to 6 (median 4). A high-quality meta-analysis with more RCTs was chosen, which suggested that SC plus chemotherapy could increase incidence of short-term efficacy, improve the quality of life and survival rate in comparison to chemotherapy. However, there was no statistically significant difference between SC plus chemotherapy and chemotherapy regarding chemotherapy-induced side effect, such as liver and kidney function obstacle, leukopenia, hemoglobin decrement and gastrointestinal adverse reaction.Conclusions:Based on the best available evidence, treatment effect of SC plus chemotherapy was better than chemotherapy and did not increase side effects. Therefore, SC plus chemotherapy may be superior to chemotherapy for treating NSCLC. However, due to some limitations, SC plus chemotherapy should be cautiously considered, and further high-quality meta-analyses are needed.
Chinese medicine; Shenyi Capsule; chemotherapy; integrative treatment; meta-analysis; non-small cell lung cancer; systematic review.
