31060884
2019 Jul
Background:Hepatitis B is the main cause of liver disease in the world. Chronic hepatitis B may lead to cirrhosis, liver insufficiency or liver cancer. Tunisia is considered as a country with intermediate endemicity, where hepatitis B presents a real public health problem. The aims of this study were to evaluate the prevalence of viral biomarkers of hepatitis B in healthcare personnel; to look for potential risk factors associated with HbS antigen carriage and to evaluate the prevalence of vaccination in this particular population.Methods:Sero-epidemiological, prospective and descriptive study, among 2411 healthcare personnel in the Military Hospital of Tunis, during a 5-month period from September 2013 to January 2014.Results:Blood samples were collected from 1497 volunteers among the hospital staff. Two hundred and seventy-one individuals had a positive HbC antibody titer (prevalence 18.1%), including 229 who were positive for HbC and HbS antibodies (prevalence 15.3%), 12 positive for only HbC antibody (prevalence 0.8%), and 30 positive for HBsAg (prevalence 2%). Among HbS Ag carriers, 56.6% reported needle stick and sharp object injuries during their professional careers. Among HbS Ag carriers, there were three patients with a history of acute viral hepatitis with jaundice, and 27 patients (90%) who were asymptomatic and were diagnosed during our study. Among healthcare workers in the hospital, 56.1% were immunized through vaccination (positive HbS antibodies without HbC antibodies), of whom 66% had durable protective immunity (HbS antibodies>100mU/mL). Lastly, 25.8% of the hospital workers remained without any protection against hepatitis B (serology entirely negative) and were then offered a complete vaccination.Conclusion:Hepatitis B vaccine is the mainstay of hepatitis B prevention. Safe injection practices, blood safety and promoting wider access to monitoring and screening, care and treatment services for hepatitis B are the best guarantees to prevent and control this disease.

