31071506
2019 Jul
Cobalt (II) phen-based drug candidates of the formulation Co(phen)2Cl2,1, Co(phen)2L, 2 where L = 1H-pyrazole-3,5-dicarboxylic acid were synthesized and thoroughly characterized by spectroscopic methods and single X-ray crystallography. DNA binding interaction of 1 and 2 was carried out employing biophysical techniques {UV-visible, fluorescence, thermal denaturation and cyclic voltammetry} to validate their potential to act as antitumor agents. The interpretations of these biophysical studies of 1 and 2 supported the non-covalent intercalative binding mode; furthermore, a higher binding trend of 2 was observed as compared to 1, phen and 1H-pyrazole-3,5-dicarboxylic acid alone. Cleavage studies of 1 and 2 with pBR322 were assessed by gel electrophoresis and it was observed that both drug candidates cleave DNA by hydrolytic pathway involving hydroxyl radical (OH). Cytotoxic activity of 1 and 2 against human cancer cell lines [MCF-7 (breast), HeLa (cervical), MIA-PA-CA 2 (pancreatic), A-498 (kidney), Hep-G2 (hepatoma)] was evaluated by SRB assay. The obtained results showed that drug candidate 1 showed significantly low GI50 value (<10 µg/ml) against MCF-7 and HeLa cell lines. However, candidate 2 revealed excellent cytotoxicity (<10 µg/ml) against all the tested cancer cell lines. The in vivo genotoxicity of 2 was evaluated by micronucleus (MN) test and chromosomal aberration (CA) in bone marrow cells of the Wistar rats to check cobalt(II)-induced systemic toxicity. The results showed that no significant chromosomal aberrations and micronucleus formation was observed at 5 mg/kg and 10 mg/kg in presence of drug candidate 2 implicating that it could be administered safely at a low dosage. However, an elevated percentage of chromosomal aberration and micronucleated polychromatic erythrocytes (MNPCE) was observed only at higher doses (20 mg/kg and 40 mg/kg) of drug candidate 2.
Cyclic voltammetry; Cytotoxicity; Gel electrophoresis; In silico molecular docking; In vitro DNA binding.
