31278071
2019 Jul
Background:Abnormal construction of the extracellular matrix (ECM) is intimately linked with carcinogenesis and the development of solid tumours, especially hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). As the major component of the ECM, collagen plays a pivotal role in carcinogenesis. P4HA2, the essential enzyme during collagen formation, becomes an important target in HCC treatment. Here, we tried to decipher whether aspirin (ASA), a classic anti-inflammatory drug, could improve the prognosis of HCC through targeting P4HA2.Methods:Western blotting, qRT-PCR assay, immunofluorescence staining, luciferase reporter gene assay, and ChIP assay were applied to demonstrate the molecular mechanism of the regulation of P4HA2 expression by aspirin. A mouse xenograft model, cell viability assay, colony formation assay, and immunohistochemistry analysis were used to evaluate the anti-fibrosis effect of aspirin through targeting the NF-κB/P4HA2 axis and LMCD1-AS1/let-7g/P4HA2 axis in vitro and in vivo. The TCGA database was used to evaluate the correlation among P4HA2, let-7g, LMCD1-AS1 and overall survival of HCC patients.Findings:In xenograft mice, aspirin was capable of targeting P4HA2 to decrease collagen deposition, resulting in the inhibition of liver tumour growth. TCGA database analysis revealed the close association between a higher P4HA2 concentration in HCC patients and shorter overall survival or a higher cancer stage and the pathological grade. Mechanistically, NF-κB can bind to the promoter of P4HA2 to activate its transcription. Moreover, lncRNA LMCD1-AS1 functions as a molecular sponge of let-7g to post-transcriptionally induce the target gene of let-7g, namely, P4HA2.Interpretation:Our findings disclose the novel role and regulatory mechanism of aspirin in the suppression of HCC by disrupting abnormal collagen deposition.Funds:973 Program, National Natural Scientific Foundation of China, Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities, Project of Prevention and Control of Key Chronic Non-Infectious Diseases.
Aspirin; Collagen deposition; LMCD1-AS1; Let-7g; NF-κB; P4HA2.
