31328140
2019 Jul
Background:Sorafenib is the currently recommended therapy in patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Among the several biomarkers available for the evaluation of the therapeutic response and prognosis, there is perfusion magnetic resonance imaging (p-MRI) that, through measurement of the vascular permeability unit (ktrans), may retrieve useful information regarding the microvascular properties of focal liver lesions. The aim of this study was to evaluate the impact of sorafenib therapy in patients with advanced HCC using the p-MRI technique.Materials and methods:In this retrospective study, 27 patients with the diagnosis of advanced HCC were included for palliative therapy using sorafenib. MRI of the liver was performed before the beginning of the oral therapy (T0), after 3 (T3), and after 6 months (T6). Dynamic acquisitions of the tumor (n = 50, during the first 2 min after contrast injection) were obtained in the coronal plane and were used to compute the parametric perfusion maps, acquiring the ktrans value using the extended Tofts pharmacokinetic model.Results:The value of ktrans obtained at T0 was significantly different from the value of ktrans obtained at T6 (p = 0.028). There were no significant differences between T0 and T3 (p = 0.115) or a correlation between ktrans at T0 and the size of the lesion (p = 0.376). The ktrans value at T0 in patients with progression-free survival (PFS) > 6 months was not significantly different from the ktrans value in patients with PFS ≤6 months (p = 0.113). The ktrans value at T0 was not significantly different between patients who were previously submitted to chemoembolization and those who were not submitted (p = 0.587).Conclusion:In this pilot study, the ktrans value may serve as a biomarker of tumor response to antiangiogenic therapy, but only 6 months after its initiation. Clinical outcomes such as PFS were not predicted before the initiation of treatment.
Angiogenesis; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Magnetic resonance imaging perfusion; Sorafenib; Tumor markers; ktrans.
