31333446
2019 Jul 4
Objective: To observe the protective role of hapatopoietin Cn (HPPcn) on acute liver injury. Methods: Six hours after 10 mmol/L CCl4, 150 mmol/L ethanol, or 0.6 mmol/L H2O2 treatment, SMMC7721 human hepatoma cells were incubated with 10, 100, or 200 ng/ml recombinant human HPPCn protein (rhHPPCn) for an additional 24 h. The cell survival rate was analyzed using the CCK-8 assay. The CCl4-induced apoptosis of SMMC7721 cells was detected by flow cytometry. Then, the levels of glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase (GOT), glutamic-pyruvic transaminase (GPT), malondialdehyde (MDA), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), glutathione peroxidase (GSH-PX), and superoxide dismutase (SOD) in SMMC7721 cell lysates and cell culture supernatant were detected. SMMC7721 cells were treated with different concentrations of rhHPPCn (0, 10, and 100 ng/ml). The cell proliferation indexes (BrdU incorporation and PCNA expression) were detected by immunohistochemistry (IHC). An acute liver injury mouse model was established by a one-time intraperitoneal injection of 20% CCl4 at a volume of 5 ml/kg body weight. One hour after CCl4 injection, 1.25 or 2.5 mg rhHPPCn/12 h/kg body weight was injected via the tail vein. The serum levels of GOT and GPT were detected at different time points. Pathological changes in the liver were evaluated. PCNA expression levels were observed by IHC. Results: rhHPPCn increased the survival rate of SMMC7721 cells and inhibited chemical toxicity-induced cell apoptosis. The levels of GOT, GPT, MDA, and LDH in the cell supernatant were significantly reduced, while GSH-PX and SOD were significantly increased after rhHPPCn treatment in the CCl4-treated SMMC7721 cells. BrdU incorporation and PCNA expression increased in a concentration-dependent manner, indicating that rhHPPCn promotes cell proliferation. The results showed that rhHPPCn significantly reduced the serum levels of GOT and GPT in CCl4-induced acute liver injury mice. rhHPPCn alleviated the tissue damage and increased PCNA expression, indicating the promotion of proliferation after acute injury. Conclusion: rhHPPCn protects hepatocytes from chemical toxins by promoting proliferation and inhibiting apoptosis in vivo and in vitro. Our study provides new insights for the clinical treatment of acute liver injury.
acute liver injury; hepatopoietin Cn; liver regeneration; proliferation; protection.
