31367249
2019 Jul 9
Rationale: PD1/PD-L1 immune checkpoint inhibitors have shown promising results for several malignancies. However, PD1/PD-L1 signaling and its therapeutic significance remains largely unknown in intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (ICC) cases with complex etiology. Methods: We investigated the expression and clinical significance of CD3 and PD1/PD-L1 in 320 ICC patients with different risk factors. In addition, we retrospectively analyzed 7 advanced ICC patients who were treated with PD1 inhibitor. Results: The cohort comprised 233 patients with HBV infection, 18 patients with hepatolithiasis, and 76 patients with undetermined risk factors. PD-L1 was mainly expressed in tumor cells, while CD3 and PD1 were expressed in infiltrating lymphocytes of tumor tissues. PD1/PD-L1 signals were activated in tumor tissues, and expression was positively correlated with HBV infection and lymph node invasion. More PD1+ T cells and higher PD-L1 expression were observed in tumor tissues of ICC patients with HBV infection compared to patients with hepatolithiasis or undetermined risk factors. More PD1+ T cells and/or high PD-L1 expression negatively impacted the prognosis of patients with HBV infection but not those with hepatolithiasis. Multivariate analysis showed PD1/PD-L1 expression was an independent indicator of ICC patient prognosis. Advanced ICC patients with HBV infection and less PD1+ T cells tended to have good response to anti-PD1 therapy. Conclusion: Hyperactivated PD1/PD-L1 signals in tumor tissues are a negative prognostic marker for ICCs after resection. HBV infection- and hepatolithiasis-related ICCs have distinct PD1/PD-L1 profiles. Further, PD1+ T cells could be used as a biomarker to predict prognosis and assay the efficiency of anti-PD1 immunotherapy in ICC patients with HBV infection.
hepatitis B virus; hepatolithiasis; immune checkpoint blockage; intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma; programmed cell death protein 1; programmed cell death protein ligand 1.
