31392101
2019 Jul 30
Background:Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a common malignant tumor affecting the digestive system and causes serious financial burden worldwide. Hepatitis B virus (HBV) is the main causative agent of HCC in China. The present study aimed to investigate the potential mechanisms underlying HBV-related HCC and to identify core biomarkers by integrated bioinformatics analyses.Methods:In the present study, HBV-related HCC GSE19665, GSE55092, GSE94660 and GSE121248 expression profiles were downloaded from the Gene Expression Omnibus database. These databases contain data for 299 samples, including 145 HBV-related HCC tissues and 154 non-cancerous tissues (from patients with chronic hepatitis B). The differentially expressed genes (DEGs) from each dataset were integrated and analyzed using the RobustRankAggreg (RRA) method and R software, and the integrated DEGs were identified. Subsequently, the gene ontology (GO) functional annotation and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analysis were performed using the DAVID online tool, and the protein-protein interaction (PPI) network was constructed using STRING and visualized using Cytoscape software. Finally, hub genes were identified, and the cBioPortal online platform was used to analyze the association between the expression of hub genes and prognosis in HCC.Results:First, 341 DEGs (117 upregulated and 224 downregulated) were identified from the four datasets. Next, GO analysis showed that the upregulated genes were mainly involved in cell cycle, mitotic spindle, and adenosine triphosphate binding. The majority of the downregulated genes were involved in oxidation reduction, extracellular region, and electron carrier activity. Signaling pathway analysis showed that the integrated DEGs shared common pathways in retinol metabolism, drug metabolism, tryptophan metabolism, caffeine metabolism, and metabolism of xenobiotics by cytochrome P450. The integrated DEG PPI network complex comprised 288 nodes, and two important modules with high degree were detected using the MCODE plug-in. The top ten hub genes identified from the PPI network were SHCBP1, FOXM1, KIF4A, ANLN, KIF15, KIF18A, FANCI, NEK2, ECT2, and RAD51AP1. Finally, survival analysis revealed that patients with HCC showing altered ANLN and KIF18A expression profiles showed worse disease-free survival. Nonetheless, patients with FOXM1, NEK2, RAD51AP1, ANLN, and KIF18A alterations showed worse overall survival.Conclusions:The present study identified key genes and pathways involved in HBV-related HCC, which improved our understanding of the mechanisms underlying the development and recurrence of HCC and identified candidate targets for the diagnosis and treatment of HBV-related HCC.
Bioinformatic analysis; Differentially expressed genes; Hepatocellular carcinoma; RobustRankAggreg.
