21991844
2011 Sep
Hepatitis belongs to a group of diseases caused by different hepatotropic viruses, which are responsible for inflamation of the liver. The most common form of liver infection is hepatitis B virus (HBV). It is transmitted by blood and other body fluids. The infection can also occur during pregnancy--the fetus contact with mother physiological fluids, direct contact with infected blood, unprotected sexual contact and intravenous administration of drugs using of unsterile needles. Chronic hepatitis B accounts for approximately 80% of liver cancer. HBV constitutes a major epidemiological threat. According to statistical data over 2 billion people worldwide are infected. 60% of patients are non-symptomatic, while 40-50 develop disease symptoms. All this often lead to inflamation, cirrhosis hepatis and hepatocellular carcinoma. HBV vaccinaton presents the only effective way to prevent the disease. Therefore it is extremely important to make people fully aware of the disease. The aim of the study was to evaluate hepatitis virus B vaccination and hepatitis incidence rate in the patients, who are non-medical staff members.Material and methods:Family Doctor Office and Cardiology Clinic patients were included in the study. The source of data was questionnaire concerning anti-hepatitis B vaccination and hepatitis occurrence.Results:The research was conducted on a group of 312 patient (109 male and 203 female). In this group, 168 people got vaccinated against the hepatitis B (53.84%). 29 patients (9.29%) had little knowledge about such a possibility of immunization, while 17 people (5.44%) knew nothing about the vaccination. The most common reason for vaccination was preventive action (preparation for medical treatment)--83 people (49.40%). Only 10 people (3.20%) from the studied group got infected. The most frequent reason were medical procedures.Conclusions:In Poland, the number of people vaccinated against B hepatitis is still very low. Therefore it is necessary to run a nationwide informative campaign and to intensify pro-vaccination activities. All this is extremely important for prevention of serious complications such as: liver failure, cirrhosis hepatis and hapatocelluar carcinoma. In the studied group it was medical procedures that became the source of infection. To guard ourselves against such situations in future it is vital to introduce and follow septic and antiseptic regime.

