25957905
2015 Jul 10
Digestive tract tumors are among the most common and deadliest malignancies worldwide, mainly due to late diagnosis and lack of efficient therapeutics. Current treatments essentially rely on surgery associated with (neo)adjuvant chemotherapy agents. Despite an upfront response, conventional drugs often fail to eliminate highly aggressive clones endowed with chemoresistant properties, which are responsible for tumor recurrence and disease dissemination. Synthetic drugs also present severe adverse systemic effects, hampering the administration of biologically effective dosages. Nanoencapsulation of chemotherapeutic agents within biocompatible polymeric or lipid matrices holds great potential to improve the pharmacokinetics and efficacy of conventional chemotherapy while reducing systemic toxicity. Tagging nanoparticle surfaces with specific ligands for cancer cells, namely monoclonal antibodies or antibody fragments, has provided means to target more aggressive clones, further improving the selectivity and efficacy of nanodelivery vehicles. In fact, over the past twenty years, significant research has translated into a wide array of guided nanoparticles, providing the molecular background for a new generation of intelligent and more effective anti-cancer agents. Attempting to bring awareness among the medical community to emerging targeted nanopharmaceuticals and foster advances in the field, we have conducted a systematic review about this matter. Emphasis was set on ongoing preclinical and clinical trials for liver, colorectal, gastric and pancreatic cancers. To the best of our knowledge this is the first systematic and integrated overview on this field. Using a specific query, 433 abstracts were gathered and narrowed to 47 manuscripts when matched against inclusion/exclusion criteria. All studies showed that active targeting improves the effectiveness of the nanodrugs alone, while lowering its side effects. The main focus has been on hepatocarcinomas, mainly by exploring glycans as homing molecules. Other ligands such as peptides/small proteins and antibodies/antibody fragments, with affinity to either tumor vasculature or tumor cells, have also been widely and successfully applied to guide nanodrugs to gastrointestinal carcinomas. Conversely, few solutions have been presented for pancreatic tumors. To this date only three nanocomplexes have progressed beyond pre-clinical stages: i) PK2, a galactosamine-functionalized polymeric-DOX formulation for hepatocarcinomas; ii) MCC-465, an anti-(myosin heavy chain a) immunoliposome for advanced stage metastatic solid tumors; and iii) MBP-426, a transferrin-liposome-oxaliplatin conjugate, also for advanced stage tumors. Still, none has been approved for clinical use. However, based on the high amount of pre-clinical studies showing enthusiastic results, the number of clinical trials is expected to increase in the near future. A more profound understanding about the molecular nature of chemoresistant clones and cancer stem cell biology will also contribute to boost the field of guided nanopharmacology towards more effective solutions.

