27701880
2017 Jan
Objective:Palliative care plays a crucial role in the overall management of patients with advanced lung cancer and was shown to lead to clinically meaningful improvement in quality of life, less aggressive endof-life care, and potentially prolonged survival. Here we summarize our single institution experience on palliative care in patients with lung cancer.Methods:The data of patients with lung cancer treated at the palliative care unit of the Medical University of Vienna between June 2010 and March 2013 were retrospectively reviewed. Patient characteristics, reasons for admissions, treatment as well as interventions during hospitalization, and clinical outcomes were determined.Results:The study enrolled 91 lung cancer patients, who represented 19.8% of the 460 patients admitted to the palliative care unit. They had the following clinical characteristics: 39% females, 61% males; median age 62 years; median Karnofsky performance status 50%, 92% metastatic disease, 74% non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), 19% small-cell lung cancer (SCLC), 7% neuroendocrine carcinomas of the lung. Primary reasons for admission were deterioration of performance status in 40%, uncontrolled cancer-related pain in 38%, dyspnea in 13%, and psychosocial factors in 8% of the patients. Median duration of hospitalization was 16 days (range, 1-101 days). Improvement or stabilisation of tumor-related symptoms was achieved in 25% of the patients. Seventy-five percent of all patients died during their first admission. Their median survival from primary diagnosis until death was 16 months (95% confidence interval, 13.7-18.3 months).Conclusions:Patients with lung cancer admitted to the palliative care unit had late-stage disease. In order to provide early palliative care, the management of lung cancer patients should guarantee access to ambulatory care, inpatient care and home care as well as cooperation and communication between oncologists and palliative care physicians.
Dyspnea; interdisciplinary communication; lung neoplasms; palliative care; symptom assessment; terminal care.
