27852847
2017 Jan 3
Hepatitis C virus (HCV) infects 2 to 3% of the world population and is a leading cause of liver diseases such as fibrosis, cirrhosis, and hepatocellular carcinoma. Many aspects of HCV study, ranging from molecular virology and antiviral drug development to drug resistance profiling, were supported by straightforward assays of HCV replication and infection. Among these assays, the HCV-dependent fluorescence relocalization (HDFR) system allowed live-cell visualization of infection without modifying the viral genome, but this strategy required careful recognition of the fluorescence relocalization pattern for its high fluorescence background in the cytoplasm. In this study, to achieve background-free visualization of HCV infection, a viral infection-activated split-intein-mediated reporter system (VISI) was devised. Uninfected Huh7.5.1-VISI cells show no background signal, while HCV infection specifically illuminates the nuclei of infected Huh7.5.1-VISI cells with either green fluorescent protein (GFP) or mCherry. Combining VISI-GFP and VISI-mCherry systems, we revisited HCV cell-to-cell transmission with clear-cut distinction of donor and recipient cells in a live-cell manner. Independently of virion assembly, exosomes have been reported to transfer HCV subgenomic RNA to initiate replication in uninfected cells, which suggested an assembly-free pathway. However, our data demonstrated that HCV structural genes and the p7 gene were essential for not only cell-free infectivity but also cell-to-cell transmission. Additionally, depletion of apolipoprotein E (ApoE) from donor cells but not from recipient cells significantly reduced HCV cell-to-cell transmission efficiency. In summary, we developed a background-free cell-based reporter system for convenient live-cell visualization of HCV infection, and our data indicate that complete HCV virion assembly machinery is essential for both cell-free and cell-to-cell transmission.Importance:Hepatitis C virus (HCV) infects hepatocytes via two pathways: cell-free infection and cell-to-cell transmission. Structural modules of the HCV genome are required for production of infectious cell-free virions; however, the role of specific genes within the structural module in cell-to-cell transmission is not clearly defined. Our data demonstrate that deletion of core, E1E2, and p7 genes individually results in no HCV cell-to-cell transmission and that ApoE knockdown from donor cells causes less-efficient cell-to-cell transmission. Thus, this work indicates that the complete HCV assembly machinery is required for HCV cell-to-cell transmission. At last, this work presents an optimized viral infection-activated split-intein-mediated reporter system for easy live-cell monitoring of HCV infection.
HCV; cell-to-cell transmission; structural proteins.
