28011478
2017 Jan
As there is currently no superior hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) model with percutaneous vascular access for transarterial treatments available, the VX2 rabbit model is frequently used for in vivo investigations on liver carcinoma. However, the VX2 cell line was derived from a virus-induced skin papilloma that can form carcinosarcoma in liver of rabbits and the transferability of obtained results to HCC treatment remains open. Here we compared the most frequently investigated human HCC model cell line, HepG2, with VX2 cells in vitro in terms of sensitivity towards the broad specificity kinase inhibitor sorafenib and responsiveness to the addition of platelet-derived growth factor AB (PDGF-AB), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and hepatic growth factor (HGF), as well as insulin and interleukin-1β (IL1β). Phosphorylation of protein kinase B (AKT) the mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) p38 and p42/44 (extracellular signal-regulated kinase, ERK1/2) and inhibitor of kappa light chain gene enhancer alpha (IĸBα) was determined by western blotting as these events are associated with early signaling cascades. Additionally, the inhibition of phosphorylation under sorafenib treatment was investigated. Sorafenib was equally toxic to both cell lines, but only in HepG2 was activation of caspase 3/7 activity, as a sign of apoptosis, observed. VX2 cells exhibited generally more intense phosphorylation signals in response to the growth factors and also serum. In contrast to VX2, HepG2 cells showed no response to PDGF-AB or VEGF as determined by kinase phosphorylation. In both cell lines, sorafenib inhibited growth factor-induced phosphorylation of ERK and p38-MAPK. AKT phosphorylation was only inhibited in VX2 cells and IĸBα phosphorylation was not influenced by this kinase inhibitor in either cell type. Taken together, the two cellular models for HCC share several features related to sorafenib application, but differed in their responsiveness towards growth factors. Therefore, results obtained with the VX2 model cannot be extended to human HCC without appropriate caution.
HepG2; VX2; hepatocellular carcinoma; in vitro models; mitogen activated protein kinase (MARK); protein kinase B (ACT); sorafenib.
