28114318
2017 Jan 23
Although resveratrol exerts manifold antitumorigenic effects in vitro, its efficacy against malignancies in vivo seems limited. This has been increasingly recognized in recent years and has prompted scientists to search for structurally related compounds with more promising anticarcinogenic and/or pharmacokinetic properties. A class of structurally modified resveratrol derivatives, so-called resveratrol imine analogs (IRA's), might meet these requirements. Therefore, the biological activity of five of these compounds was examined and compared to that of resveratrol. Firstly, the antiproliferative potency of all five IRA's was investigated using the p53 wildtype-carrying colorectal carcinoma cell line HCT-116wt. Then, using the former and a panel of various other tumor cell lines (including the p53 knockout variant HCT-116p53-/-), the growth-inhibiting and cell cycle-disturbing effects of the most potent IRA (IRA 5, 2-[[(2-hydroxyphenyl)methylene]amino]-phenol) were studied as was its influence on cyclooxygenase-2 expression and activity. Finally, rat liver microsomes were used to determine the metabolic stability of that compound. IRA 5 was clearly the most potent compound in HCT-116wt cells, with an unusually high IC50-value of 0.6 μM. However, in the other five cell lines used, the antiproliferative activity was mostly similar to resveratrol and the effects on the cell cycle were heterogeneous. Although all cell lines were affected by treatment with IRA 5, cells expressing functional p53 seemed to react more sensitively, suggesting that this protein plays a modulating role in the induction of IRA 5-mediated biological effects. Lastly, IRA 5 led to contradictory effects on cyclooxygenase-2 expression and activity and was less glucuronidated than resveratrol. As IRA 5 is approximately 50 times more toxic towards HCT-116wt cells, exerts different effects on the cyclooxygenase-2 and is metabolized to a lesser extent, it shows certain advantages over resveratrol and could therefore serve as basis for additional chemical modifications, potentially yielding compounds with more favorable biological and pharmacokinetic features.

