30850497
2019 Oct
Pancreatic cancer (PC) has a very poor prognosis. Surgery is the primary treatment for patients with resectable PC; however, local recurrence, hepatic metastasis, and peritoneal dissemination often occur even after extensive surgery. Adjuvant chemotherapy, typically with gemcitabine, has been used clinically but with only a modest survival benefit. To achieve a better outcome, we investigated the efficacy of 64Cu-intraperitoneal radioimmunotherapy (ipRIT) with 64Cu-labeled antiepidermal growth factor receptor antibody cetuximab as an adjuvant treatment after PC surgery using an orthotopic xenografted mouse model. Methods: The efficacy of adjuvant 64Cu-ipRIT was investigated in a human PC mouse model harboring orthotopic xenografts of xPA-1-DC cells. To reproduce the clinical situation, PC xenografts were surgically resected when pancreatic tumors were readily visible but not metastatic tumors. Increasing doses of 64Cu-cetuximab were intraperitoneally injected, and the mice were monitored for toxicity to determine the safe therapeutic dose. For adjuvant 64Cu-ipRIT, the day after tumor resection, the mice were intraperitoneally administered 22.2 MBq of 64Cu-PCTA-cetuximab and the survival was compared with that in surgery-only controls. For comparison, adjuvant chemotherapy with gemcitabine was also examined using the same model. Results: The mouse model not only developed primary tumors in the pancreas but also subsequently reproduced local recurrence, hepatic metastasis, and peritoneal dissemination after surgery, which is similar to the manifestations that occur with human PC. Adjuvant 64Cu-ipRIT with 64Cu-labeled cetuximab after surgery effectively suppressed local recurrence, hepatic metastasis, and peritoneal dissemination in this model. Significant improvement of the survival with minimal toxicity was achieved by adjuvant 64Cu-ipRIT compared with that in control mice that underwent surgery only. Adjuvant chemotherapy with gemcitabine nominally prolonged the survival, but the effect was not statistically significant. Conclusion: 64Cu-ipRIT with cetuximab can be an effective adjuvant therapy after PC surgery.
64Cu-intraperitoneal radioimmunotherapy; 64Cu-labeled cetuximab; adjuvant therapy; orthotopic model; pancreatic cancer.
