31271881
2019 Oct
Background:In spite of therapeutic approaches, liver cancer is still one of the deadliest type of tumor in which tumor microenvironment may play an active role in the outcome of the disease. Decorin, a small leucine-rich proteoglycan is not only responsible for assembly and maintenance of the integrity of the extracellular matrix, but a natural inhibitor of cell surface receptors, thus it exerts antitumorigenic effects. Here we addressed the question whether this effect of decorin is independent of the tumor phenotypes including differentiation, proliferation and invasion.Method:Four hepatoma cell lines HepG2, Hep3B, HuH7 and HLE, possessing different molecular backgrounds, were selected to investigate. After proliferation tests, pRTK arrays, WB analyses, and immunofluorescent examinations were performed on decorin treated and control cells for comparison.Results:Significant growth inhibitory potential of decorin on three out of four hepatoma cell lines was proven, however the mode of its action was different. Induction of p21WAF1/CIP1, increased inactivation of c-myc and β-catenin, and decrease of EGFR, GSK3β and ERK1/2 phosphorylation levels were observed in HepG2 cells, pathways already well-described in literature. However, in the p53 deficient Hep3B and HuH7, InsR and IGF-1R were the main receptors transmitting signals. In harmony with its receptor status, Hep3B cells displayed high level of activated AKT. As the cell line is retinoblastoma mutant, ATR/Chk1/Wee1 system might hinder the cell cycle in G2/M phase via phosphorylation of CDK1. In Huh7 cells, all RTKs were inhibited by decorin followed by downregulation of AKT. Furthermore, HuH7 cell line responded with concentration-dependent ERK activation and increased phospho-c-myc level. Decorin had only a non-significant effect on the proliferation rate of HLE cell line. However, it responded with a significant decrease of pAKT, c-myc and β-catenin activity. In this special cell line, the inhibition of TGFβ may be the first step of the protective effect of decorin.Conclusions:Based on our results decorin may be a candidate therapeutic agent in the battle against liver cancer, but several questions need to be answered. It is certain that decorin is capable to exert its suppressor effect in hepatoma cells without respect to their phenotype and molecular background.
Decorin; Hepatoma cell line; Liver carcinoma; Proliferation inhibition; Tumor-specific inhibition.
