31310366
2019 Oct
Hepatitis B virus (HBV) genome consists of circular partially double stranded DNA of 3.2 kb size which gets converted into covalently closed circular DNA (cccDNA) during its life cycle. It then acts as a template for formation of pregenomicRNA (pgRNA) of 3.5 kb. Absence of appropriate animal models prompted a need to establish a better in vitro culture system to uncover the propagation and survival mechanisms of the virus. There is scarcity of data to represent the significance of varying length of replication competent viral genome on the secretion of viral secretory proteins/antigens and in turn on the overall effects on the accomplishment of the viral life cycle. The present study was undertaken to ascertain a suitable replication competent construct in which the viral life cycle of HBV with varying clinical relevance can be studied efficiently. Two constructs (pHBV 1.3 and pHBV 1X) of different sizes were used to transfect hepatoma cells and consequently the secretory antigens were monitored. In vector free approach (pHBV 1X), 3.2 kb viral DNA is directly transfected in the culture system whereas in vector mediated approach more than full length of viral genome is cloned in a vector (pHBV 1.3X) and transfected to obtain a 3.5 kb pgRNA intermediate. HBV secretes two important antigens; HBsAg and HBeAg. HBsAg is a hallmark of infection and is the first to be secreted in the blood stream whereas HBeAg is a secretory protein and remains associated with the viral replication. The construct pHBV 1.3X referring to as more than full length, by virtue of being capable of undergoing transcription without the synthesis of cccDNA intermediate (unlike the clinical situation where an intermediate step of cccDNA synthesis is an essential component to initiate the viral life cycle) appears to be better system for studying viral life cycle in in vitro culture system. The reasons could be assigned to the fact that as low as 100 ng of viral DNA was shown to quantify the replicative phenotypes with this construct. The better efficiency of this construct at prima facie, appears to be mediated through the significantly higher levels of pgRNA transcript during the viral life cycle.
HBeAg; covalently closed circular DNA; hepatitis B surface antigen; hepatitis B virus; pregenomic RNA; replication competent recombinant constructs.
