31501018
2019 Oct
Background:Retinoblastoma binding protein 4 (RBBP4) plays an essential role in the development of multiple cancers. However, its relationship with prognosis in colon cancer and colon cancer hepatic metastasis has not been elucidated. The aim of this study was to explore the relationship between RBBP4 expression and prognosis of colon cancer patients and to evaluate RBBP4 as a new prognostic marker in these patients.Methods:Eighty colon cancer patients underwent surgical resection of the colon were enrolled. Among them, forty colon cancer patients suffered with hepatic metastasis. The colon cancer tissues, para-colon cancer tissues, and hepatic metastatic cancer tissues were collected from the pathological department for further analysis. The expression of RBBP4 proteins was examined by immunohistochemistry and correlated with clinicopathological parameters. The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database was used to validate the expression and explore its relationship with clinical characteristics.Results:RBBP4 was up-regulated in the colon cancer tissues compared with the para-colon cancer tissues. The analysis of TCGA database verified the upregulation of RBBP4 in the colon cancer tissues and RBBP4 overexpression was correlated with nerve invasion and poor outcomes of chemotherapy. Moreover, the positive rate of RBBP4 expression in 40 colon cancer patients with hepatic metastasis was higher in the hepatic metastatic cancer tissues (39/40, 97.5%) than in the colon cancer tissues (26/40, 65.0%). Our clinicopathological analysis showed that RBBP4 expression was significantly correlated with vascular invasion, hepatic metastasis, and lymph node involvement (all P < 0.05). Additionally, the survival analysis demonstrated that RBBP4 over-expression was correlated with poor prognosis.Conclusions:RBBP4 was upregulated in the colon cancer. RBBP4 may be a novel predictor for poor prognosis of colon cancer and colon cancer hepatic metastasis.
Colon cancer; Hepatic metastasis; Retinoblastoma binding protein 4.
