31608178
2019 Oct 7
Objective:Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a disease that is associated with high mortality; currently, there is no curative and reliable treatment. Cadherin EGF LAG seven-pass G-type receptor 3 (CELSR3) is the key signaling molecule in the wingless and INT-1/planar cell polarity (WNT/PCP) pathway. This study aimed to elucidate the prognostic significance of CELSR3 in HCC patients.Methods:The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database, the Cancer Cell Line Encyclopedia (CCLE) database and the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database were used to analyze the expression of CELSR3 mRNA in HCC samples and cells. The relationship between CELSR3 mRNA and clinical features was assessed by the chi-square test. the diagnostic and predictive value of CELSR3 mRNA expression were analyzed using the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve. Kaplan-Meier curve and Cox regression analyses were performed to assess the prognostic value of CELSR3 mRNA in HCC patients. Finally, all three cohorts database was used for gene set enrichment analysis(GSEA) and the identification of CELSR3-related signal transduction pathways.Results:The expression of CELSR3 mRNA was upregulated in HCC, and its expression was correlated with age (P = 0.025), tumor status (P = 0.022), clinical stage (P = 0.003), T classification (P = 0.010), vital status (P = 0.001), and relapse (P = 0.005). The ROC curve assessment indicated that CELSR3 mRNA expression has high diagnostic value in HCC and in the subgroup analysis of stage. In addition, the Kaplan-Meier curve and Cox analyses suggested that patients with high CELSR3 mRNA expression have a poor prognosis, indicating that CELSR3 mRNA is an independent prognostic factor for the overall survival of HCC patients. GSEA showed that GO somatic diversification of immune receptors, GO endonuclease activity, GO DNA repair complex and GO somatic cell DNA recombination, were differentially enriched in the meta-GEO cohort, the HCC cell line cohort and the TCGA cohort of the high CELSR3 mRNA expression phenotype.Conclusion:Our results indicate that CELSR3 mRNA is involved in the progression of cancer and can be used as a biomarker for the prognosis of HCC patients.
CCLE; CELSR3; GEO; GSEA; HCC; The Cancer Genome Atlas.
