31623628
2019 Oct 17
Background:Circular RNAs (circRNAs) have recently been identified as potential functional modulators of the cellular physiology processes. The study aims to uncover the potential clinical value and driving molecular mechanisms of circRNAs in gallbladder cancer (GBC).Patients and methods:We performed RNA sequencing from four GBC and paired adjacent normal tissues to analyze the circRNA candidates. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (QRT-PCR) was used to measure the circFOXP1 expression from 40 patient tissue samples. Short hairpin RNA mediated knockdown or exogenous expression of circFOXP1 combined with in vitro and in vivo assays were performed to prove the functional significance of circFOXP1. Double luciferase reporter, RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP) and RNA pull-down assays were also performed.Results:By performing RNA sequencing from GBC and paired adjacent normal tissues to analyze the circRNA candidates, we identified that circFOXP1 (hsa_circ_0008234) expression was significantly upregulated in GBC tissues and positively associated with lymph node metastasis, advanced TNM stage and poor prognosis in patients. Short hairpin RNA mediated knockdown or exogenous expression of circFOXP1 combined with in vitro assays demonstrated that circFOXP1 has pleiotropic effects, including promotion of cell proliferation, migration, invasion, and inhibition of cell apoptosis in GBC. In vivo, circFOXP1 promoted tumor growth. Mechanistically, double luciferase reporter, RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP) and biotin-labeled RNA pull-down assays clarified that circFOXP1 interacted with PTBP1 that could bind to the 3'UTR region and coding region (CDS) of enzyme pyruvate kinase, liver and RBC (PKLR) mRNA (UCUU binding bites) to protect PKLR mRNA from decay. Additionally, circFOXP1 acted as the sponge of miR-370 to regulate PKLR, resulting in promoting Warburg effect in GBC progression.Conclusions:These results demonstrated that circFOXP1 serve as a prognostic biomarker and critical regulator in GBC progression and Warburg effect, suggesting a potential target for GBC treatment.
Gallbladder cancer; PKLR; PTBP1; circFOXP1; miR-370.
