31635225
2019 Oct 18
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a leading cause for deaths worldwide. Histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibition (HDACi) is emerging as a promising therapeutic strategy. However, most pharmacological HDACi unselectively block different HDAC classes and their molecular mechanisms of action are only incompletely understood. The aim of this study was to systematically analyze expressions of different HDAC classes in HCC cells and tissues and to functionally analyze the effect of the HDACi suberanilohydroxamic acid (SAHA) and trichostatin A (TSA) on the tumorigenicity of HCC cells. The gene expression of all HDAC classes was significantly increased in human HCC cell lines (Hep3B, HepG2, PLC, HuH7) compared to primary human hepatocytes (PHH). The analysis of HCC patient data showed the increased expression of several HDACs in HCC tissues compared to non-tumorous liver. However, there was no unified picture of regulation in three different HCC patient datasets and we observed a strong variation in the gene expression of different HDACs in tumorous as well as non-tumorous liver. Still, there was a strong correlation in the expression of HDAC class IIa (HDAC4, 5, 7, 9) as well as HDAC2 and 8 (class I) and HDAC10 (class IIb) and HDAC11 (class IV) in HCC tissues of individual patients. This might indicate a common mechanism of the regulation of these HDACs in HCC. The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) dataset analysis revealed that HDAC4, HDAC7 and HDAC9 as well as HDAC class I members HDAC1 and HDAC2 is significantly correlated with patient survival. Furthermore, we observed that SAHA and TSA reduced the proliferation, clonogenicity and migratory potential of HCC cells. SAHA but not TSA induced features of senescence in HCC cells. Additionally, HDACi enhanced the efficacy of sorafenib in killing sorafenib-susceptible cells. Moreover, HDACi reestablished sorafenib sensitivity in resistant HCC cells. In summary, HDACs are significantly but differently increased in HCC, which may be exploited to develop more targeted therapeutic approaches. HDACi affect different facets of the tumorigenicity of HCC cells and appears to be a promising therapeutic approach alone or in combination with sorafenib.
hepatocellular carcinoma; histone deacetylase; histone deacetylase inhibitor; sorafenib.
