31662827
2019 Oct 15
Background:Early diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is necessary to improve the prognosis of patients. However, the currently available tumor biomarkers are insufficient for the early detection of HCC. Acylcarnitine is essential in fatty acid metabolic pathways. A recent study reported that a high level of acylcarnitine may serve as a useful biomarker for the early diagnosis of HCC in steatohepatitis (SH) patients. In contrast, another study reported that the level of acetylcarnitine (AC2) - one of the acylcarnitine species - in non-SH patients with HCC was decreased vs that reported in those without HCC.Aim:To investigate the usefulness of acylcarnitine as a biomarker for the early diagnosis of HCC in non-SH patients.Methods:Thirty-three non-SH patients (14 with HCC and 19 without HCC) were enrolled in this study. Blood samples were obtained from patients at the time of admission. The levels of acylcarnitine and AC2 in the serum were determined through tandem mass spectrometry. The levels of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and VEGF receptor 2 (VEGFR-2) were determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Univariate and multivariate analyses were used to determine early diagnostic factors of HCC.Results:The level of acylcarnitine was significantly lower in non-SH patients with HCC vs those without HCC (P < 0.05). In contrast, the level of lens culinaris agglutinin-reactive fraction of α-fetoprotein (AFP) - AFP-L3% - was significantly higher in non-SH patients with HCC vs those without HCC (P < 0.05). However, the levels of total carnitine, free carnitine, AFP, des-γ-carboxy prothrombin, VEGF, and VEGFR-2 were not different between patients with and without HCC. The multivariate analysis showed that a low level of acylcarnitine was the only independent factor for the early diagnosis of HCC. The patients with a low level of AC2 had a significantly higher level of VEGF vs those with a high level of AC2 (P < 0.05).Conclusion:The metabolic pathways of fatty acids may differ between SH HCC and non-SH HCC. Further studies are warranted to investigate these differences.
Acetylcarnitine; Acylcarnitine; Angiogenesis; Biomarker; Carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Oxidative stress.
