31754384
2019 Oct 18
Rationale: Ascorbate is an essential micronutrient known for redox functions at normal physiologic concentrations. In recent decades, pharmacological ascorbate has been found to selectively kill tumour cells. However, the dosing frequency of pharmacologic ascorbate in humans has not yet been defined. Methods: We determined that among five hepatic cell lines, Huh-7 cells were the most sensitive to ascorbate. The effects of high-dose ascorbate on hepatoma were therefore assessed using Huh-7 cells and xenograft tumour mouse model. Results: In Huh-7 cells, ascorbate induced a significant increase in the percentage of cells in the G0/G1 phase, apoptosis and intracellular levels of ROS. High doses of ascorbate (4.0 pmol cell-1), but not low doses of ascorbate (1.0 pmol cell-1), also served as a pro-drug that killed hepatoma cells by altering mitochondrial respiration. Furthermore, in a Huh-7 cell xenograft tumour mouse model, intraperitoneal injection of ascorbate (4.0 g/kg/3 days) but not a lower dose of ascorbate (2.0 g/kg/3 days) significantly inhibited tumour growth. Gene array analysis of HCC tumour tissue from xenograft mice given IP ascorbate (4.0 g/kg/3 days) identified changes in the transcript levels of 192 genes/ncRNAs involved in insulin receptor signalling, metabolism and mitochondrial respiration. Consistent with the array data, gene expression levels of AGER, DGKK, ASB2, TCP10L2, Lnc-ALCAM-3, and Lnc-TGFBR2-1 were increased 2.05-11.35 fold in HCC tumour tissue samples from mice treated with high-dose ascorbate, and IHC staining analysis also verified that AGER/RAGE and DGKK proteins were up-regulated, which implied that AGER/RAGE and DGKK activation might be related to oxidative stress, leading to hepatoma cell death. Conclusions: Our studies identified multiple mechanisms are responsible for the anti-tumour activity of ascorbate and suggest high doses of ascorbate with less frequency will act as a novel therapeutic agent for liver cancer in vivo.
Ascorbate; ROS; cancer; hepatoma; mitochondrial respiration.; vitamin C.
