31781645
2019 Oct 21
Background:Interventional therapy has been widely used in the medical field as its advantages of minimally invasive, safe and quick recovery. Bloodstream infection (BSI) is the most common healthcare-associated infections (HAIs) after interventional therapy, but there are few reports about it. This study intends to analyze the clinical characteristics and relevant factors of BSI after six years of interventional therapy in a large tertiary teaching hospital, in order to provide guidances for the prevention and control of BSI after interventional operations.Methods:The case information of patients with BSI after interventional therapy from 2013 to 2018 were collected through the "real-time monitoring system of healthcare-associated infections". All BSI was determined by the infection control full-time staff and clinicians. Questionnaires were designed to review case by case and register the relevant patient information into a database. A total of 18 relevant factors were counted. Statistical software was used for analysis.Results:174 cases of BSI occurred in 25401 patients, the incidence was 0.69%, and BSI accounted for 50% of all infected sites. Gram-positive bacteria accounted for 56.05%, coagulase-negative Staphylococcus was the main infectious bacteria. Relevant risk factor analysis showed that hepatocellular carcinoma, had undergone surgery, biliary complications, prophylactic antibiotic, replacement of antibiotics, number of interventional operations, days of prophylactic antibiotic use were the related risk factors associated with BSI (P < 0.05). Multivariate analysis showed that days of prophylactic antibiotic use (OR = 1.586, P < 0.05) and replacement of antibiotics (OR = 13.349, P < 0.05) were the main risk factors associated with the development of BSI.Conclusions:BSI is the main infection site after interventional surgery. For patients with the risk factors as hepatocellular carcinoma/biliary complications/had undergone surgery etc., the time of prophylactic antibiotic use can be prolonged properly before interventional surgery, and selection of single antibiotic appropriate for use could significantly aid preventive measures to avoid occurrence of BSI.

