26960728
2016 Apr
Purpose:To report our long-term experience with percutaneous cryotherapy for primary and metastatic liver tumors, including historical perspectives on complications over time and local recurrence rates.Materials and methods:Following IRB approval under HIPAA compliance, 342 CT fluoroscopic-guided, percutaneous cryotherapy procedures were performed for 443 masses in 212 outpatients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC; N = 36), or metastatic disease (N = 176), grouped as colorectal carcinoma (CRC) and non-CRC metastases. Tumor and ablation sizes were noted in relation to adjacent vasculature. All complications were graded according to standardized criteria. Patients were followed by CT and/or MRI at 1, 3, 6, 12, 18, 24 months and yearly thereafter. Local recurrences were defined as either "procedural" within the ice ablation zone, or "satellite" within 1 cm of the ablation rim to evaluate recurrence patterns.Results:Average tumor diameter of 2.8 cm was treated by average cryoprobe number of 4.5, which produced CT-visible ice ablation zone diameters averaging 5.2 cm. Grade >3 complications were primarily hematologic [N = 20/342; (5.8%)], and appeared related to pre-procedural anemia/thrombocytopenia, carcinoid tumor type, and large ablation volumes. No significant central biliary leak, strictures, or bilomas were noted. At a mean follow-up of 1.8 years, local tumor recurrences were 5.5%, 11.1%, and 9.4% for HCC, CRC, and non-CRC metastases, respectively, consisting mainly of satellite foci. No significant difference was noted for local recurrences near major blood vessels or tumors >3 cm diameter.Conclusions:Percutaneous hepatic cryotherapy is a well-visualized, safe procedure that produces very low local recurrence rates, even for tumors near vasculature and diameters over 3 cm. Cryoablation deserves to be in the armamentarium of percutaneous hepatic ablation, especially with careful patient selection for tumors 100,000. Percutaneous hepatic cryoablation represents a highly flexible technique with particular benefits near central biliary structures and/or adjacent crucial structures.
Complication; Cryoablation; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Liver tumors; Metastases; Recurrence.
