27060105
2016 Apr 15
The consensuscis-regulatory AP-1 (activator protein-1)-like AREs (antioxidant-response elements) and/or EpREs (electrophile-response elements) allow for differential recruitment of Nrf1 [NF-E2 (nuclear factor-erythroid 2)-related factor 1], Nrf2 and Nrf3, together with each of their heterodimeric partners (e.g. sMaf, c-Jun, JunD or c-Fos), to regulate different sets of cognate genes. Among them, NF-E2 p45 and Nrf3 are subject to tissue-specific expression in haemopoietic and placental cell lineages respectively. By contrast, Nrf1 and Nrf2 are two important transcription factors expressed ubiquitously in various vertebrate tissues and hence may elicit putative combinational or competitive functions. Nevertheless, they have de facto distinct biological activities because knockout of their genes in mice leads to distinguishable phenotypes. Of note, Nrf2 is dispensable during development and growth, albeit it is accepted as a master regulator of antioxidant, detoxification and cytoprotective genes against cellular stress. Relative to the water-soluble Nrf2, less attention has hitherto been drawn to the membrane-bound Nrf1, even though it has been shown to be indispensable for embryonic development and organ integrity. The biological discrepancy between Nrf1 and Nrf2 is determined by differences in both their primary structures and topovectorial subcellular locations, in which they are subjected to distinct post-translational processing so as to mediate differential expression of ARE-driven cytoprotective genes. In the present review, we focus on the molecular and cellular basis for Nrf1 and its isoforms, which together exert its essential functions for maintaining cellular homoeostasis, normal organ development and growth during life processes. Conversely, dysfunction of Nrf1 results in spontaneous development of non-alcoholic steatohepatitis, hepatoma, diabetes and neurodegenerative diseases in animal models.
Nrf1; Nrf2; cancer; diabetes; homoeostasis; organ integrity; redox stress; topobiology.
