25895368
Nov-Dec 2014
The expression of the total proteasome pool, immune proteasome subunits LMP2 and LMP7, TAP1 and TAP2 transporters, as well as RT1A molecule of MHC class I was investigated in the ascite Zajdela hepatoma at the 10th day after implantation into Brattleboro rats with the hereditary defect of hypothalamic arginine-vasopressin synthesis (AVP) and into WAG rats with normal AVP expression. In Zajdela hepatoma cells implanted into Brattleboro rats the 3-fold increase of the total proteasome pool and LMP2 level and 8-fold increase of the LMP7 level was detected by Western blotting as compared to those in WAG rats. Differences in the LMP2 and LMP7 expression suggest variations in their functions, namely the important role of LMP7 in anti-tumor immunity. The growth of Zajdela hepatoma in WAG rats was accompanied by the decreased level of total proteasome pool as well as immune proteasome expression as compared to those in Brattleboro rats during the regression of tumor. The analysis of TAP1 and TAP2 revealed the pronounced expression of these peptide transporters in Zajdela hepatoma cells implanted into Brattleboro and WAG rats. The expression level of RT1A molecule of MHC class I was increased 3 times in Zajdela hepatoma cells implanted into Brattleboro rats as compared to WAG rats. Moreover, flow cytometric analysis of CD4- and CD8-lymphocytes number in the spleen of Brattleboro and WAG rats was performed at the 10th day after implantation of Zajdela hepatoma. The increased number of CD4- and CD8-lymphocytes was observed in the spleen of Brattleboro as compared to WAG. The increased subpopulations of cytotoxic T-lymphocytes and T-helpers might promote the tumor regression in Brattleboro rats. The reduced populations of CD4- and CD8-lymphocytes in the spleen of WAG rats were accompanied by the splenomegaly and tumor progression. The data obtained suggest that AVP deficiency in Brattleboro rats leads to the increase of the immune proteasome and MHC class I expression in Zajdela hepatoma cells, resulting in tumor immunogenicity and its elimination by the adaptive immunity.

