25894142
2015 Apr
Objectives:Hepatitis B and D virus coinfection or superinfection lead to chronic liver disease and have poor treatment results and poor prognosis. After transplant, these patients have difficult problems. We aimed to report long-term data of liver transplant recipients who had hepatitis B and D virus-related chronic liver disease.Materials and methods:This retrospective, longitudinal study included 25 consecutive hepatitis B surface antigen-positive patients with antihepatitis D virus antibodies. Patient data (age, sex, antiviral treatment, posttransplant use of hepatitis B hyperimmunoglobulin and/or nucleoside/nucleotide analogues, the presence of hepatocellular carcinoma, age at transplant, follow-up) were extracted from patient records.Results:Females comprised 32% patients. The median age was 44 years (range, 23-63 y). The serum Hepatitis B envelope antigen level was negative in all patients. At the time of transplant, 4 patients were positive for hepatitis B virus DNA and 11 patients also had hepatocellular carcinoma. Posttransplant follow-up was 59 months (range, 3-120 mo). During follow-up, 4 patients died, 4 patients were lost to follow-up, and 17 patients were alive. Posttransplant survival of patients with hepatocellular carcinoma was 50.45 months (range, 3-84 mo) and without hepatocellular carcinoma was 65.8 months (range, 4-120 mo). There were 3 patients who had acute rejection and were treated successfully with pulse doses of prednisolone. Hyperimmunoglobulin therapy was used in conjunction with oral nucleotide/nucleoside analogues for 12 months (range, 3-24 mo) and then stopped. After transplant, 4 patients had antiviral medicine changed to adefovir or entecavir because of drug resistance, and otherwise all patients remained negative for hepatitis B virus DNA during follow-up.Conclusions:Patients transplanted for hepatitis B and D virus cirrhosis, even with hepatocellular carcinoma, had favorable prognosis and good longterm results. Close follow-up of patients and effective viral suppression with suitable drugs were key factors for efficient patient care.

