25894158
2015 Apr
Objectives:Solid-organ transplant recipients are at increased risk of developing cancer including cervical cancer compared with woman in the general population, mostly due to long-term immunosuppressive therapy. The Papanicolaou smear remains the primary method of screening cervical pathology including preinvasive and invasive lesions. The objective of this study was to evaluate Pap smear findings in solid-organ transplant recipients, determine the prevalence of abnormal smears, and compare these patients with the general population.Materials and methods:We retrospectively examined 111 women patients who received liver or kidney transplant between January 1990 to December 2012 at Başkent University Ankara Hospital. Pap smear findings were compared with normal control patients matched for same age and technical procedure of cervical cytology. To selection of control patients, propensity score matching program was performed. All Pap smears were re-examined according to Bethesda 2001 criteria.Results:In 111 transplant patients, 2 patients (1.8%) had atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance, 8 patients (7.2%) had low-grade squamous intraepithelial lesion, 15 patients (13.5%) had Candida infection, 2 patients (1.8%) had Trichomonas vaginalis, 1 patient (0.9%) had herpes simplex infection, 13 patients (11.7%) had bacterial vaginosis, 15 patients (13.5%) had reactive changes due to inflammation, and 18 patients (16.2%) had atrophy. When we compared our results with the control group, there were statistically significant differences (P ≤ .05) between the 2 groups in epithelial cell abnormalities (low-grade squamous intraepithelial lesion), Candida infection, bacterial vaginosis, and atrophy.Conclusions:Pap smear screening potentially may help recognize cervical preinvasive and invasive lesions. The risk of developing cervical intraepithelial neoplasia is greater in transplant recipients because of immunosuppressive therapy. The incidence of low-grade squamous intraepithelial lesion was significantly greater in transplant recipients than the general population. Intensive follow-up with Pap smear in transplant recipients is important in the early detection of these lesions.

