25894141
2015 Apr
Objectives:Hepatitis B immunoglobulin prophylaxis in combination with antiviral drugs is recommended for prevention of hepatitis B virus reinfection after liver transplant. However, there is no consensus on a standard prophylactic method, and controversy exists over the duration, dose, and route of administration. We conducted a prospective study to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of intramuscular hepatitis B immunoglobulin in combination with lamivudine and/or tenofovir and discontinuation of hepatitis B immunoglobulin after 1 year for prevention of hepatitis B virus reinfection.Materials and methods:Patients with hepatitis Brelated liver cirrhosis who had undergone primary liver transplants were enrolled. The prophylactic protocol involved intraoperative intramuscular hepatitis B immunoglobulin at 10 000 IU, tapering to 5000 IU daily for the first 6 days, weekly for a month, every 2 weeks for the next month, and monthly for a year after liver transplant, in combination with antiviral drugs.Results:From January 2002 until March 2014, two hundred sixty-eight liver transplants were performed. Forty-four patients (16.4%) who underwent liver transplants due to hepatitis B-related liver failure were enrolled. Five patients had hepatocellular carcinoma; 20 had both hepatitis D and hepatitis B virus infection. The median age was 47 years (range, 26-59 y) with a median model for end stage liver disease score of 20. Thirty-three patients were men (76%). Sixty-one percent of patients were negative for hepatitis B virus DNA at the time of transplant. The median follow-up was 13.6 months (range, 0-142 mo). Only 1 patient (2.3%) experienced hepatitis B virus reinfection (at 44.7 months posttransplant), which was successfully treated with tenofovir. Five patients died (11.4%) during the follow-up from nonhepatitis B causes.Conclusions:Intramuscular hepatitis B immunoglobulin in combination with lamivudine or tenofovir and discontinuation of hepatitis B immunoglobulin after 1 year posttransplant may provide safe and cost-effective protection against posttransplant hepatitis B reinfection.

