27069325
2016 Apr
Liver cancer is the fifth most common cancer and is still one of the leading causes of death world wide, due to food additives, alcohol, fungal toxins, air, toxic industrial chemicals, and water pollutants. Chemopreventive drugs play a potential role in liver cancer treatment. Obviously in the production of anticancer drugs, the factors like poor solubility, bioavailability, biocompatibility, limited chemical stability, large amount of dose etc., plays a major role. Against this backdrop, the idea of designing the chemopreventive nature of bio flavanoid hesperetin (HP) drug conjugated with pegylated gold nanoparticles to increasing the solubility, improve bioavailability and enhance the targeting capabilities of the drug during diethylnitrosamine (DEN) induced liver cancer in male wistar albino rats. The dose fixation studies and the toxicity of pure HP and HP conjugated gold nanoparticles (Au-mPEG(5000)-S-HP) were analysed. After concluded the dose fixation and toxicity studies the experimental design were segregated in six groups for the anticancer analysis of DEN induced HCC for 16 weeks. After the experimental period the body weight, relative liver weight, number of nodules and size of nodules, the levels of tumor markers like CEA, AFP and the level of lipid peroxidation, lipid hydroperoxides and the activities of antioxidant enzymes were assessed. The administration of DEN to rats resulted in increased relative liver weight and serum marker enzymes aspartate transaminase, alanine transaminase, alkaline phosphatase, lactate dehydrogenase, and gamma glutamyl transpeptidase. The levels of lipid peroxides elevated (in both serum and tissue) with subsequent decrease in the final body weight and tissue antioxidants like superoxide dismutase, catalase, reduced glutathione, glutathione peroxidise, and glutathione reductase. HP supplementation (20 mg/kg b.wt) significantly attenuated these alterations, thereby showing potent anticancer effect in liver cancer and the HP loaded gold nanoparticels (Au-mPEG(5000)-S-HP) treated animals shows the better treatment than the pure HP due to the solubility of drug, bioavailability and the target drug delivery of the biodegradable polymer. Histological observations were also carried out, which added supports to the chemopreventive action of the pure HP and HP loaded gold nanoparticles (Au-mPEG(5000)-S-HP) against DEN induction during liver cancer progression. These findings suggest that HP loaded gold nanoparticels (Au-mPEG(5000)-S-HP) shows better efficacy than the pure HP against lipid peroxidation, hepatic cell damage and protects the antioxidant system in DEN induced hepatocellular carcinogenesis.
Antioxidants; Chemoprevention; Diethylnitrosamine; Gold nanoparticles; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Hesperetin.
