23707166
2013 Aug 20
Objective:HEPLISAV™ is an adult hepatitis B vaccine that requires fewer doses over a shorter period of time and elicits higher and earlier seroprotection compared to Engerix-B to reduce the risk of hepatitis B infection. The objective of this analysis was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of vaccination with HEPLISAV vs. Engerix-B(®) to prevent hepatitis B infection in select populations.Methods:Markov models were developed for the following populations: diabetics, patients with chronic or end stage kidney disease, healthcare workers and international travelers to countries with high HBV infection prevalence. Hepatitis B disease progression was modeled using 11 health states: seroprotected, susceptible, acute infection, chronic infection, fulminant hepatic failure, compensated cirrhosis, decompensated cirrhosis, hepatocellular carcinoma, liver transplant, post-transplant care, and death. Seroprotection rates were obtained from two phase 3 clinical trials comparing HEPLISAV with Engerix-B and ranged across various populations from 89-96% for HEPLISAV and 62-81% for Engerix-B. Higher vaccination completion rates were assumed for HEPLISAV compared with Engerix-B given that fewer doses of HEPLISAV are required in a shorter period of time to achieve seroprotection for the evaluated populations. Each cycle length after the first year in the model was 1-year. All future costs and benefits were discounted at 3%. A lifetime analysis and a U.S. payer perspective were used.Results:HEPLISAV has a favorable cost-effectiveness profile with incremental cost effectiveness ratios Conclusions:HEPLISAV is a cost-effective option to provide high rates of seroprotection and early seroprotection across a range of populations from health care workers to patients with chronic or end stage kidney disease.
ASR; Anti-HBs; Chronic kidney disease; Cost-effectiveness analysis; Diabetes; End-stage renal disease; FHF‘; HBV; HBsAg; HCC; Hepatitis B; ICER; International travelers; QALY; SPR; Vaccine; age-standardized rate; antibody to hepatitis B surface antigen; fulminant hepatic failure; hepatitis B surface antigen; hepatitis B virus; hepatocellular carcinoma; incremental cost-effectiveness ratio; quality adjusted life-year; seroprotection rate (anti-HBs ≥10 mIU/mL).
