24329988
2014 Aug
Background:Portal vein arterialization (PVA) has been used as a salvage inflow technique when hepatic artery (HA) reconstruction is deemed impossible in liver transplantation (LT) or hepatopancreatobiliary (HPB) surgery. Outcomes and the management of possible complications have not been well described.Methods:The present study analysed outcomes in 16 patients who underwent PVA during the period from February 2005 to January 2011 for HA thrombosis post-LT (n = 7) or after liver resection (n = 1), during curative resection for locally advanced HPB cancers (requiring HA interruption) (n = 7) and for HA resection without reconstruction (n = 1). In addition, a literature review was conducted.Results:Nine patients were women. The median age of the patients was 58 years (range: 30-72 years). Recovery of intrahepatic arterial signals and PVA shunt patency were documented using Doppler ultrasound until the last follow-up (or until shunt thrombosis in some cases). Of five postoperative deaths, two occurred as a result of haemorrhagic shock, one as a result of liver ischaemia and one as a result of sepsis. The fifth patient died at home of unknown cause. Three patients (19%) had major bleeding related to portal hypertension (PHT). Of these, two underwent re-exploration and one underwent successful shunt embolization to control the bleeding. Four patients (25%) had early shunt thrombosis, two of whom underwent a second PVA. After a median follow-up of 13 months (range: 1-60 months), 10 patients (63%) remained alive with normal liver function and one submitted to retransplantation.Conclusions:Portal vein arterialization results in acceptable rates of survival in relation to spontaneous outcomes in patients with completely de-arterialized livers. The management of complications (especially PHT) after the procedure is challenging. Portal vein arterialization may represent a salvage option or a bridge to liver retransplantation and thus may make curative resection in locally advanced HPB cancers with vascular involvement feasible.

