24246861
2013 Jul
Objective:To study the expression of carbonic anhydrase IX (CAIX), PAX2 and PAX8 in different types of renal epithelial tumor and their association with clinicopathologic characteristics.Methods:Immunohistochemical study by EnVision method was performed in order to assess the expression of CAIX, PAX2 and PAX8 in 155 cases of renal cell carcinoma and 4 cases of metastatic clear cell renal cell carcinoma (CCRCC). Ninety-six cases of non-neoplastic renal parenchymal tissue adjacent to CCRCC, 8 cases of clear cell hepatocellular carcinoma and 2 cases of clear cell hidradenoma were used as controls.Results:CAIX was commonly expressed in CCRCC (94.0%, 63/67), of which 77.8% (49/63) showed strong positivity. CAIX was focally positive in papillary renal cell carcinoma, collecting duct carcinoma and urothelial carcinoma of renal pelvis. It was negative in chromophobe renal cell carcinoma, oncocytoma and adjacent non-neoplastic renal tissue. CAIX was also strongly expressed in the 4 cases of metastatic CCRCC. Focal expression of CAIX was demonstrated in the 8 cases of clear cell hepatocellular carcinoma and 2 cases of clear cell hidradenoma. The expression of CAIX in CCRCC did not correlate with tumor grading, clinical staging and presence of distal metastasis. On the other hand, PAX2 showed positive expression in different types of renal epithelial tumor, clear cell hepatocellular carcinoma and clear cell hidradenoma in various degrees. In contrast, PAX8 was commonly expressed in all types of renal epithelial tumor, with the exception of urothelial carcinoma of renal pelvis. PAX8 was not expressed in clear cell hepatocellular carcinoma and clear cell hidradenoma. Regarding diagnosis of CCRCC, CAIX demonstrated high sensitivity and specificity. PAX2 showed high specificity but low sensitivity. PAX8 was sensitive and specific in the diagnosis of renal epithelial tumor.Conclusions:CAIX is a useful immunohistochemical marker with high specificity and sensitivity in distinguishing CCRCC from other types of renal epithelial tumor and clear cell tumors of non-renal origin. PAX2 is a marker with high sensitivity and low specificity for diagnosis of renal epithelial tumors. PAX8 is typically expressed in renal epithelial tumors. The combined detection of CAIX, PAX2 and PAX8 is useful in the diagnosis and differential diagnosis of renal epithelial tumors.

