31469428
2020 Apr
Background and aims:Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress is associated with liver inflammation and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). However, how ER stress links inflammation and HCC remains obscure. Mesencephalic astrocyte-derived neurotrophic factor (MANF) is an ER stress-inducible secretion protein that inhibits inflammation by interacting with the key subunit of nuclear factor kappa light chain enhancer of activated B cells (NF-κB) p65. We hypothesized that MANF may play a key role in linking ER stress and inflammation in HCC.Approach and results:Here, we found that MANF mRNA and protein levels were lower in HCC tissues versus adjacent noncancer tissues. Patients with high levels of MANF had better relapse-free survival and overall survival rates than those with low levels. MANF levels were also associated with the status of liver cirrhosis, advanced tumor-node-metastasis (TNM) stage, and tumor size. In vitro experiments revealed that MANF suppressed the migration and invasion of hepatoma cells. Hepatocyte-specific deletion of MANF accelerated N-nitrosodiethylamine (DEN)-induced HCC by up-regulating Snail1+2 levels and promoting epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). MANF appeared in the nuclei and was colocalized with p65 in HCC tissues and in tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α)-treated hepatoma cells. The interaction of p65 and MANF was also confirmed by coimmunoprecipitation experiments. Consistently, knockdown of MANF up-regulated NF-κB downstream target genes TNF-α, interleukin (IL)-6 and IL-1α expression in vitro and in vivo. Finally, small ubiquitin-related modifier 1 (SUMO1) promoted MANF nuclear translocation and enhanced the interaction of MANF and p65. Mutation of p65 motifs for SUMOylation abolished the interaction of p65 and MANF.Conclusions:MANF plays an important role in linking ER stress and liver inflammation by inhibiting the NF-κB/Snail signal pathway in EMT and HCC progression. Therefore, MANF may be a cancer suppressor and a potential therapeutic target for HCC.

