31776602
2020 Apr
Background:Altered biodistribution of [F-18]2-fluoro-2-deoxyglucose (FDG) is sometimes encountered in pediatric patients undergoing chemotherapy for lymphoma on post-induction positron emission tomography (PET) imaging. A characteristic pattern of increased FDG uptake in white adipose tissue can be seen, particularly in the buccal regions, body wall and gluteal regions, with a shift of radiotracer away from the blood pool and liver. This altered biodistribution has been attributed to effects of corticosteroids in pediatric and adult patients and is important to recognize because of its potential for limiting the diagnostic quality of the PET scan and interfering with therapeutic response assessment.Objective:In contrast to the well-known metabolically active brown fat seen on up to one-third of pediatric PET scans, white fat is usually non-metabolically active. We sought to determine the incidence of altered distribution of FDG in subcutaneous white adipose tissue in pediatric patients undergoing PET imaging and to assess the association with corticosteroid use.Materials and methods:We reviewed the medical records and imaging for four children in whom altered biodistribution in white adipose tissue was present on post-induction FDG PET/CT, identified during routine clinical practice. All four were receiving corticosteroids as part of their chemotherapy. We then retrospectively reviewed oncology FDG PET/CT scans over a 2-year period (1,361 scans in 689 patients) to determine the incidence of uptake in white fat by qualitative visual assessment. In the children identified with altered biodistribution, we measured maximum standard uptake value (SUVmax) and mean standard uptake value (SUVmean) in areas of subcutaneous white fat, the buccal regions, body wall or gluteal soft-tissue regions, liver and blood pool. We reviewed all medical records, including medication lists. We summarize the relevant clinical and imaging findings of 13 pediatric patients, including the 4 index patients.Results:We determined the incidence of FDG uptake in white fat to be rare, found in 9 of 1,361 (0.6%) PET scans performed for pediatric cancer evaluation. FDG uptake was increased in subcutaneous adipose tissue, particularly in the buccal regions, body wall and gluteal regions, with a shift of radiotracer away from the blood pool and liver. The degree of increased uptake in peripheral white fat varied from marked to mild, and the biodistribution was distinct from that of brown adipose tissue. Children with this altered biodistribution were uniformly receiving corticosteroids as part of induction treatment for their cancer, and these findings were only identified on post-induction PET/CT. Follow-up PET/CT documented resolution of this effect after treatment with corticosteroids ceased.Conclusion:Our findings support the current understanding that characteristic uptake of FDG in white adipose tissue is mediated by corticosteroid effect. Although this altered biodistribution is rare (<1% of PET scans) it could impair the diagnostic quality of the scan, affecting image interpretation, and should be recognized when present.
Biodistribution; Children; Computed tomography; Oncology; Positron emission tomography; White adipose tissue.
