31981943
2020 Apr
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a malignant primary liver cancer with poor prognosis. Most previous studies on anti-HCC effects of traditional Chinese medicines (TCM) have focused on the mechanism of direct action and few researchers considered that TCM can inhibit tumor progression and improve prognosis of HCC patients through regulating tumor microenvironment (TME). In this study, network pharmacology combined bioinformatics methods were employed to analysis mechanism of Bombyx batryticatus (B. batryticatus, one of the most frequently used traditional Chinese animal medicines, has been used in some Asian countries for centuries as an anticancer agent, anti-inflammatory agent, and antioxidant.) in regulating TME of HCC. The results showed that 24 core targets and 2 compounds were identified from overlapping between differential expression genes related to HCC in the cancer genome atlas (TCGA) database and targets of B. batryticatus in TCMSP database. For further analyzing the role of TME heterogeneity of HCC on anti-HCC mechanism of B. batryticatus, the correlation of core targets related with overall survival of HCC with TME cells in hepatitis C or hepatitis B virus-associated hepatocellular carcinoma (VIR) and non-hepatitis C or hepatitis B virus-associated hepatocellular carcinoma (NVIR) were calculated, respectively. The results showed that AKR1C3, SPP1 were significantly related with macrophages in VIR and other targets including NR1I2, CYP1A2 and CYP3A4 were significantly associated with macrophages in NVIR; the target protein AKR1C3 was significantly negative correlated with macrophages M1 in VIR (cor=-0.35, P-value0.05). In conclusion, the molecular mechanism of anti-HCC of B. batryticatus can be related to the tumor microenvironment to some extent. B. batryticatus may exert its anti-cancer effects and improve prognosis of patients by regulating macrophages M1 in VIR and NVIR through acting on different targets.
Bombyx batryticatus; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Network pharmacology; Prognosis; Tumor microenvironment.
