32293507
2020 Apr 15
Background:Sustained adrenergic signaling secondary to chronic stress promotes cancer progression; however, the underlying mechanisms for this phenomenon remain unclear. Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) frequently develops within fibrotic livers rich in activated hepatic stellate cells (HSCs). Here, we examined whether the stress hormone norepinephrine (NE) could accelerate HCC progression by modulating HSCs activities.Methods:HCC cells were exposed to conditioned medium (CM) from NE-stimulated HSCs. The changes in cell migration and invasion, epithelial-mesenchymal transition, parameters of cell proliferation, and levels of cancer stem cell markers were analyzed. Moreover, the in vivo tumor progression of HCC cells inoculated with HSCs was studied in nude mice subjected to chronic restraint stress.Results:CM from NE-treated HSCs significantly promoted cell migration and invasion, epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), and expression of cell proliferation-related genes and cancer stem cell markers in HCC cells. These pro-tumoral effects were markedly reduced by depleting secreted frizzled related protein 1 (sFRP1) in CM. The pro-tumoral functions of sFRP1 were dependent on β-catenin activation, and sFRP1 augmented the binding of Wnt16B to its receptor FZD7, resulting in enhanced β-catenin activity. Additionally, sFRP1 enhanced Wnt16B expression, reinforcing an autocrine feedback loop of Wnt16B/β-catenin signaling. The expression of sFRP1 in HSCs promoted HCC progression in an in vivo model under chronic restraint stress, which was largely attenuated by sFRP1 knockdown.Conclusions:We identify a new mechanism by which chronic stress promotes HCC progression. In this model, NE activates HSCs to secrete sFRP1, which cooperates with a Wnt16B/β-catenin positive feedback loop. Our findings have therapeutic implications for the treatment of chronic stress-promoted HCC progression.
Chronic stress; Hepatic stellate cells; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Norepinephrine; SFRP1.
