32337246
2020 Apr 12
Purpose:This study was performed to investigate the association of CEP55 expression with liver cancer and explore potential underlying mechanisms. Materials and Methods. Data obtained from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) was used to investigate CEP55 expression, its prognostic value, the potential mechanisms of its upregulation, CEP55-related pathways, and its biological functions in liver cancer. Data from Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) and International Cancer Genome Consortium (ICGC) was used to validate survival analysis. The correlation between CEP55 and tumor-infiltrating immune cells (TIICs) in liver cancer was determined by using Tumor Immune Estimation Resource (TIMER).Results:CEP55 was significantly overexpressed in the liver tumor sample compared to the adjacent normal liver sample. High CEP55 expression was significantly associated with histological grade, advanced stages, histological type, high T classification, and survival status. High CEP55 expression was significantly related to dismal prognosis compared with low CEP55 expression, which was validated by the GSE54236 dataset and ICGC database. Meanwhile, CEP55 was identified as the risk factor to independently predict overall survival (OS) for patients with liver cancer upon multivariate analysis. Enrichment analysis indicated that cell cycle, DNA replication, pathways in cancer, mTOR signaling pathway, and VEGF signaling pathway were significantly enriched in the high CEP55 expression group. In addition, the CEP55 expression was significantly related to the infiltration level of B cells, CD4+ T cells, CD8+ T cells, macrophages, neutrophils, and dendritic cells in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). CEP55 methylation level was negatively correlated to its mRNA expression. And patients with CEP55 hypermethylation and low expression can achieve a better prognosis than those with CEP55 hypomethylation and high expression.Conclusion:CEP55 may serve as a candidate treatment target for it is a determinant of prognosis and immune infiltration in liver cancer patients. DNA hypomethylation might contribute to the overexpression of CEP55 in liver cancer.

