32375434
2020 Apr 25
Objective: To investigate the clinical characteristics of patients with hepatic metastasis after cervical cancer operation, and analyze the risk factors and prognostic factors of hepatic metastasis. Methods: A total of 1 312 patients with stage Ⅰa2-Ⅱb2 cervical cancer received radical surgery from January 2013 to January 2016 in the First Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou University were collected, of which 13 cases (0.99%, 13/1 312) had hepatic metastasis after operation. A retrospective analysis was conducted on clinical features of patients with hepatic metastasis after cervical cancer operation. T-test, chi-square test, rank sum test and logistic regression were used to analyze the risk factors of hepatic metastasis after surgery of cervical cancer operation. Kaplan-Meier method was used for survival analysis. Log-rank test was used for screening of prognostic factors in patients with postoperative hepatic metastasis. Results: (1) Clinical features: there were 3 cases of simple hepatic metastasis without obvious clinical symptoms, 2 patients with perihepatic lymph node metastasis showed only low back pain, 8 patients with multiple extrahepatic metastases, and their clinical symptoms were related to the site of metastasis. Five cases out of 9 (5/9) with liver metastasis had abnormal tumor marker results. The abnormal kinds of tumor markers were mainly carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), CA(125), CA(199), and CA(72-4). The interval time of hepatic metastasis after operation was 2-22 months. (2) Analysis of risk factors for hepatic metastasis: univariate analysis showed that lymph node metastasis, histological type, infiltration depth, and lymph-vascular space invasionwere associated with hepatic metastasis after cervical cancer surgery (P<0.05).Multivariate analysis showed that lymph node metastasis and small cell carcinoma were independent risk factors for postoperative hepatic metastasis (P<0.05). (3) Prognostic factors in patients with hepatic metastasis:among 13 patients with postoperative hepatic metastases from cervical cancer, 9 died during the follow-up period and 4 survived. The median total survival time after hepatic metastases was 7 months (range 3-32 months). Univariate analysis showed that multiple extrahepatic metastases and treatment after hepatic metastasis had significant effects on the prognosis of patients with hepatic metastasis after cervical cancer operation (P<0.05). Conclusions: The interval of hepatic metastasis after surgery for cervical cancer operation is within 2 years. Patients with lymph node metastasis and small cell carcinoma are more prone to postoperative hepatic metastasis. The prognosis of patients with extrahepatic multiple metastases is poor, and individualized treatment should be carried out after comprehensive analysis for patients with hepatic metastasis after cervical cancer operation.
Liver neoplasms; Lymphatic metastasis; Neoplasm metastasis; Postoperative complications; Prognosis; Uterine cervical neoplasms.
