32375448
2020 Apr 23
Objective: To analyze the effect of ultrasound contrast agent targeting gelatin on uptake of high lymphatic metastasis cell lines of mouse hepatocellular carcinoma with peritoneal effusion. Methods: The modified double emulsifying solvent evaporation method was used to construct the macromolecule contrast agent PLGA-Cooh. The carbodiimide was used to connect the monoclonal antibody of gelatin with the contrast agent PLGA-Cooh, and the targeted ultrasound contrast agent Gsn-PLGA was established. The particle size and Zeta potential of the targeted ultrasound contrast agent were measured by laser particle size analyzer. The surface binding of the contrast agent to the gelatin monoclonal antibody was evaluated by immunofluorescence. Hca-F cells with high lymphatic metastasis were cultured in mice with peritoneal effusion hepatocellular carcinoma. Target-seeking ability in vitro was evaluated by in vitro uptake test, and the imaging effect of the contrast agent in vitro was evaluated by in vitro developing test. Results: The contrast agent is white powder with good water solubility. The average particle size and surface potential were (569.68±6.96) nm and (-10.95±2.43) mV, respectively. The fluorescent antibody binding rate of non-targeted and targeted ultrasound contrast agent labeled with DiI were 0.84% and 95.89%, respectively. The results showed that the targeted ultrasound contrast agent Gsn-PLGA had a better of developing effect in vitro. Hca-F cells with high expression of gelsolin protein had stronger uptake ability of targeted ultrasound contrast agent and stronger green fluorescence in vitro than those with low expression of gelsolin protein (P<0.05). Moreover, targeted ultrasound contrast agent Gsn-PLGA had stronger targeting to the gelsolin protein. The echo of the targeted ultrasound contrast agent Gsn-PLGA was uniform and fine, without attenuating echo of the back. Simultaneously, the development effect was more obvious with the increase of contrast agent concentration (P<0.05). Conclusion: Ultrasound contrast agent Gsn-PLGA targeting gelatin can bind Hca-F cells with high expression of gelatin and display a good imaging effect in vitro.
Gelsolin; Hepatocellular neoplasms; Lymphatic metastasis; Poly lactic-co-glycolic acid; Ultrasound contrast agent.
