32483419
2020 Apr 27
Rational: Increasing evidence indicates that the physical environment is a critical mediator of tumor behavior. Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) develops in an altered biomechanical environment, and increased matrix stiffness is a strong predictor of HCC development. C-X-C chemokine receptor type 4 (CXCR4) is known to trigger HCC progression. However, CXCR4 as a mediator of mechanical cues in HCC is not well characterized. Methods: qRT-PCR, Western blot and IHC were used to detect the CXCR4 expression in different matrix stiffness gels. MTT was used to measure the cell proliferation of HCC cells. Immunoblotting was used for detection of epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and stemness on the matrix stiffness. Immunofluorescence (IF) was used to detect the nuclear location in HCC cells. IP was used to show the interaction between YAP, UbcH5c and β-TrCP. Results: We identified CXCR4 as a critical intracellular signal transducer that relays matrix stiffness signals to control mechano-sensitive cellular activities through ubiquitin domain-containing protein 1 (UBTD1)-mediated YAP signaling pathway. We found that CXCR4 expression was remarkably up-regulated in HCC cells with increasing matrix stiffness and mediated proliferation, epithelial to mesenchymal transition, and stemness. Mechanistically, matrix stiffness acts through CXCR4 to decrease the levels of UBTD1, which is involved in the proteasome-dependent degradation of YAP, a major cell mechano-transducer. UBTD1 interacted with components of the YAP degradation complex and promoted the interaction between YAP and its E3 ubiquitin ligase β-TrCP. UBTD1 knockdown decreased YAP ubiquitylation and resulted in the activation of YAP-targeted genes and YAP downstream signaling. Downregulation of UBTD1 in HCC tissues correlated with malignant prognostic features and overall survival. Finally, luteolin, a natural product, suppressed matrix stiffness-induced biological effects and CXCR4-mediated YAP signaling pathway in HCC cells. Conclusion: Our findings reveal CXCR4 as a molecular switch in mechano-transduction, thereby defining a mechano-signaling pathway from matrix stiffness to the nucleus.
C-X-C chemokine receptor 4; Yes-associated protein; hepatocellular carcinoma; matrix stiffness; ubiquitin domain-containing protein 1.
