31851084
2020 Sep
Background and aims:Sorafenib is the first proved target therapy that shows significant survival benefit in advanced hepatocellular carcinoma. This study was aimed to investigate whether add-on sorafenib be beneficial for those experienced transarterial chemoembolization refractoriness.Methods:From 2005 to 2016, a total of 656 treatment-naive hepatocellular carcinoma patients receiving transarterial chemoembolization treatment were recruited. Transarterial chemoembolization refractoriness was defined as progressive disease after two consecutive of transarterial chemoembolization treatment within 6 months. Patient's baseline characteristics, tumor burden, and parameters for liver function evaluation during treatment were analyzed. All the variables were compared between patients with and without transarterial chemoembolization refractoriness, as well as with and without add-on sorafenib.Results:Among the 656 patients, the median age was 62.5 (range 27.3-91.5) years old, and 74.5% were male. Transarterial chemoembolization refractoriness events were documented in 202 patients (30.8%). After multivariate logistic regression analysis, tumor size ≧5 cm, baseline alpha-fetoprotein level ≧200 mg/dl, elevation of alpha-fetoprotein ≧20%, and elevation of Child-Turcotte-Pugh score ≧2 points after first transarterial chemoembolization were the independent predictive factors for transarterial chemoembolization refractoriness. Twenty-two patients (10.9%) received add-on sorafenib treatment and 146 (72.3%) patients continued transarterial chemoembolization treatment alone. After 1:2 propensity score matching, patients with add-on sorafenib therapy had significantly longer median overall survival than transarterial chemoembolization treatment alone (23.1 vs. 11.0 months, log-rank P = 0.001).Conclusion:The tumor size, baseline alpha-fetoprotein, and elevation of alpha-fetoprotein and Child-Turcotte-Pugh score after first transarterial chemoembolization were the predictors for transarterial chemoembolization refractoriness. For patients with transarterial chemoembolization refractoriness, add-on sorafenib achieved better survival benefit than transarterial chemoembolization treatment alone.

