32763287
2020 Sep
Liver cancer is the third most common cause of cancer-related death but is almost 4-fold more prevalent in men than in women. Increased risk in men may be due in part to elevated chronic inflammation, which is a crucial driving force for many cancers. Male mice also have a greater incidence of liver cancer than females after postnatal exposure to procarcinogens such as 4-aminobiphenyl (ABP) or diethylnitrosamine (DEN), or in mice that transgenically express hepatitis B virus (HBV) proteins. Liver damage, inflammation and proliferation are central to liver cancer development, and previous studies have shown that hepatocellular damage, inflammation and proliferation are acutely elevated to a greater extent in adult male mice than in females after high-dose exposure to DEN. In contrast, postnatal exposure of mice to tumor-inducing doses of either DEN or ABP produces no such acute responses. However, it is not known whether sex differences in responses to postnatal carcinogen exposure or to HBV protein expression may develop over time following sexual maturation. We conducted an extended time course study to compare markers of liver damage, inflammation and proliferation between male and female mice exposed postnatally to 600 nmol ABP or 10 mg/kg DEN, and also in HBV transgenic (HBVTg) mice, over the duration of time that mice are normally maintained for standard liver tumor development protocols. Postnatal exposure to either ABP or DEN produced no evidence of either acute or chronic hepatocyte damage, liver inflammation or proliferation in either male or female mice. In contrast, HBVTg mice showed increased liver damage, inflammation and proliferation with age, but with no observed sex difference. These findings suggest that although chronic liver damage, inflammation and proliferation may be drivers for liver cancer development, they are unlikely to contribute directly to observed sex differences in liver tumor risk.
4-Aminobiphenyl; Diethylnitrosamine; Hepatitis B virus; Inflammation; Liver cancer; Sex differences.
