32886457
2020 Sep
Background:Inflammatory pseudotumor of the liver (IPTL) is misdiagnosed usually as a malignant tumor based on the imaging findings. Differential diagnosis should be established to avoid hepatic resection. At imaging, IPTL has been misdiagnosed usually as hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). It is usually found firstly using conventional ultrasonic examination, which cannot give a definitive diagnosis. Because of its atypical clinical presentation and radiological appearance, a presumptive diagnosis of malignancy is frequently made. With the development of ultrasound systems and ultrasound contrast agents (UCA), contrast-enhanced ultrasound is widely used in diagnosing focal lesions of the liver.Objectives:To delineate the hemodynamic features of IPTL compared with hepatic VX2 tumor and normal liver using contrast-enhanced ultrasound.Material and methods:Freund's complete adjuvant (FCA) was injected using a modified method into the desirable portion of the liver in rabbits. Two weeks after the injection, solitary IPTLs were formed (which was proved with pathological examination). Ten rabbits with IPTL, 10 rabbits with VX2 carcinoma and 10 healthy rabbits were studied using contrast-enhanced ultrasound with bolus injection of SonoVueTM through the peripheral vein. Corresponding parameters such as time to enhancement (ET), time to peak intensity (PIT), time to ascent (AT), and time to lighten (LT) were measured with wash-in/wash-out curve.Results:Contrast-enhanced imaging clearly delineated the dynamic enhancement of the lesions and liver parenchyma during the whole phase. Inflammatory pseudotumor of the liver showed the same enhanced features as the liver parenchyma. In VX2 tumors, hyperechoic enhancement in arterial phase and hypoechoic enhancement was observed in the portal and delayed phase compared with the surrounding hepatic parenchyma. The normal liver showed whole of liver parenchyma enhanced in portal phase.Conclusions:The study showed that contrast-enhanced ultrasound provided useful information about perfusion in IPTL and VX2 carcinoma. Contrast-enhanced ultrasound is a useful technique in the differential diagnosis of focal liver lesions if combined with time-intensity curve.
contrast agent; inflammatory pseudotumor; liver; ultrasonic diagnosis; ultrasonography.
