32936424
2020 Sep 16.</span
The aim of this study was to investigate the genes associated with ferroptosis and the progression of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). The RNA sequencing data of erastin-induced ferroptosis in HCC cells were downloaded from the Sequence Read Archive database with accession number SRP119173. The microarray dataset GSE89377 of HCC progression was downloaded from the Gene Expression Omnibus database. The ferroptosis-related genes were screened by differential analysis and HCC progression-related genes were screened by cluster analysis using Mfuzz. Then, the genes associated with ferroptosis and HCC progression were screened by Venn analysis, followed by functional enrichment, protein-protein interaction (PPI) analysis, and transcription factor (TF) prediction. Finally, survival analysis was performed using data from the Cancer Genome Atlas database. A total of 33 upregulated and 52 downregulated genes associated with HCC progression and ferroptosis were obtained, and these genes were significantly involved in the negative regulation of ERK1 and ERK2 cascades; the NAD biosynthetic process; alanine, aspartate, and glutamate metabolism; and other pathways. The PPI network contained 52 genes and 78 interactions, of which, cell division cycle 20 (CDC20) and heat shock protein family B (small) member 1 (HSPB1) were hub genes found in higher degrees. Among the 85 genes associated with HCC progression and ferroptosis, two TFs (activating TF 3 (ATF3) and HLF) were predicted, with HSPB1 targeted by ATF3. In addition, 26 genes that were found to be significantly correlated with the overall survival of HCC patients were screened, including CDC20 and thyroid hormone receptor interactor 13. Several genes associated with HCC progression and ferroptosis were screened based on a comprehensive bioinformatics analysis. These genes played roles in HCC progression and ferroptosis via the negative regulation of the ERK1 and ERK2 cascades; the NAD biosynthetic process; and alanine, aspartate, and glutamate metabolism. ATF3 and HSPB1 played important roles in HCC progression and ferroptosis, with HSPB1 possibly regulated by ATF3.
Activating transcription factor 3; Ferroptosis; Heat shock protein family B member 1; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Overall survival.
