32953853
2020 Sep 6
Background:Phosphatidylinositol-3,4,5-trisphosphate dependent Rac exchange factor 1 (P-Rex1) was reported to be a risk factor in several cancers, including breast cancer, lung cancer, and melanoma, but its expression and role in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) have not yet been fully studied.Aim:To explore the expression of P-Rex1 in HCC, and further evaluate its potential application in the diagnosis and prognosis of HCC, especially in hepatitis B virus (HBV)-related patients.Methods:P-Rex1 expression in HCC was evaluated by real-time-quantitative polymerase chain reaction. The expression of P-Rex1 was subjected to correlation analysis with clinical features, such as lymph node invasion, distant metastasis, HBV infection, patient's age and gender. Receiver operating characteristic analysis was used to examine the potential role of P-Rex1 as a diagnostic biomarker in HCC. Kaplan-Meier analysis was used to determine the association between P-Rex1 expression and overall survival, progression-free survival and relapse-free survival. Bioinformatic analysis was used to validate the clinical findings.Results:P-Rex1 expression was significantly increased in HCC tumors than adjacent tissues. The expression of P-Rex1 was higher in HCC patients with lymph node invasion, distant metastasis, HBV infection and positive alpha-fetoprotein, respectively. The receiver operating characteristic analysis showed that P-Rex1 was a diagnostic biomarker with a higher area under the curve value, especially in patients with HBV infection. Survival analysis showed that patients with higher P-Rex1 expression had a favorable survival rate, even in early-stage patients.Conclusion:P-Rex1 expression was highly increased in HCC, and the expression level of P-Rex1 was positively correlated with tumor progression. P-Rex1 has a higher efficiency in the diagnosis of HBV-related HCC, and could also be used as a favorable prognostic factor for HCC patients.
Diagnosis; Hepatitis B virus infection; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Overexpression; Phosphatidylinositol-3,4,5-trisphosphate dependent Rac exchange factor 1; Prognosis.
