32967689
2020 Sep 23
Background:Lymphoepithelioma-like carcinoma is a rare distinctive variant of liver cancer with unique epidemiological and pathological characteristics, characterized by dense lymphocyte infiltration. It can be divided into lymphoepithelioma-like hepatocellular carcinoma and lymphoepithelioma-like intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma. Existing research shows that the prognosis of this tumor is good. To date, only 101 cases have been reported.Case presentation:The first patient was a 62-year-old Chinese man with hepatitis B virus infection who presented with a single lesion in the liver. The patient underwent surgical treatment and was discharged on the 4th day. The patient was diagnosed with combined lymphoepithelioma-like hepatocellular carcinoma and cholangiocarcinoma; he has been alive for 15 months. The second patient was a 63-year-old Chinese woman with right upper abdominal pain and hepatitis B virus infection. The imaging examination revealed a single lesion in the liver. The patient underwent surgical treatment and was discharged 1 week later. The patient was diagnosed with lymphoepithelioma-like hepatocellular carcinoma and was considered to have recurrence in the lymph nodes approximately 2 years after the operation. The patient underwent local radiotherapy; she has been alive for 60 months. The third patient was a 50-year-old Chinese man with hepatitis B virus infection who presented with a single lesion in the liver and two enlarged lymph nodes. The patient received liver puncture before surgery to indicate lymph node metastasis and experienced local recurrence after liver resection. The patient underwent chemotherapy and radiotherapy. The patient was diagnosed with lymphoepithelioma-like hepatocellular carcinoma. The patient was deceased at 24-month follow-up.Conclusions:This article reports 3 cases without Epstein-Barr virus and reviews the current literature, which suggests even mixed pathological type or locally advanced cases of LELC with lymph node metastasis and postoperative recurrence should be actively treated for a longer survival period.
Case report; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Liver Cancer; Lymphoepithelioma-like carcinoma.
