33033521
2020 Sep 9
Purpose: Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is an aggressive and prevalent tumor threatening human health. A previous study suggested low PRELP (proline/arginine-rich end leucine-rich repeat protein) expression was associated with poor patient survival in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC). However, the role of PRELP in HCC has not yet been illuminated. Methods: PRELP expression analyses were carried out using transcriptomic datasets from the Integrative Molecular Database of Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCCDB). The correlations between PRELP expression and clinicopathological features, and prognostic analyses were performed with a tissue microarray (TMA) and immunohistochemistry (IHC). The endogenous expression and in vitro roles of PRELP were investigated in cultured HCC cell lines. The potential mechanisms were characterized by a Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) and gene-gene correlation analyses. Results: We found that PRELP mRNA expression was dramatically decreased in HCCs in comparison with that in adjacent normal tissues (NTs) or hepatic cirrhosis. IHC staining showed that PRELP was down-regulated in HCCs, which mainly located in cytoplasm, and was also found in nuclei. The correlation analyses revealed that PRELP expression was relevant to later p-stages (p= 0.028) and tumor size (p= 0.001). The overall survival (OS) and relapse free survival (RFS) time was shorter in HCC patients with lower PRELP expression levels than that with higher PRELP expression levels. Overexpression of PRELP inhibited, while knockdown of PRELP promoted proliferation and migration of HCC cells. For potential mechanisms, PRELP may inhibit progression of HCCs by interacting with integrin family members and the extracellular microenvironment. Conclusion: Our findings demonstrated that overexpression of PRELP correlates with better patient survival and inhibits both cell proliferation and migration in HCC. Therefore, PRELP can serve as a potential prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target which deserves further investigation.
PRELP; hepatocellular carcinoma; integrin; migration; prognosis; proliferation.
