33072070
2020 Sep 10
Combination therapy with inhibitors of cytotoxic T lymphocyte-associated protein (CTLA)4 and programmed death (PD)-1 has demonstrated efficacy in cancer patients. However, there is little information on CTLA4 and PD-1 expression levels and their clinical significance across diverse cancers. In this study, we addressed this question by analyzing PD-1 and CTLA4 levels in 33 different types of cancer along with their prognostic significance using The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and Cancer Cell Line Encyclopedia datasets. Liver hepatocellular carcinoma (LIHC) patients receiving cytokine-induced killer cell (CIK) immunotherapy at Sun Yat-sen University cancer center were enrolled for survival analysis. The correlation between PD-1/CTLA4 expression and cancer immunity was also analyzed. The results showed that PD-1 and CTLA4 transcript levels varied across cancer cell lines, with aberrant expression detected in certain cancer types; Kaplan-Meier analysis with the Cox proportional hazards model showed that this was closely related to overall survival in breast invasive carcinoma, glioblastoma multiforme, head and neck squamous cell carcinoma, acute myeloid leukemialymphoma, uterine corpus endometrial carcinoma, and uveal melanoma in TCGA. High serum PD-1 and CTLA4 levels predicted better survival in LIHC patients receiving CIK therapy. PD-1 and CTLA4 levels were found to be significantly correlated with the degree of tumor cell infiltration using Tumor Immune Estimation Resource, Estimating Relative Subsets of RNA Transcripts, and Estimation of Stromal and immune Cells in Malignant Tumor Tissues Using Expression Data as well as with tumor-infiltrating lymphocyte marker expression; they were also related to tumor mutation burden, microsatellite instability, mismatch repair, and the expression of DNA methyltransferases in some cancer types. Gene set enrichment analysis of 33 cancer types provided further evidence for associations between PD-1/CTLA4 levels and cancer development and immunocyte infiltration. Thus, PD-1 and CTLA4 play important roles in tumorigenesis and tumor immunity and can serve as prognostic biomarkers in different cancer types.
CTLA4; PD-1; cancer immunity; pan-cancer; prognostic biomarker.
