33078127
2020 Sep
Background:The pandemic of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) has diverted resources from healthcare services for patients with chronic medical illness such as cancer. COVID-19 also causes organ dysfunction, complicating cancer treatment. In most countries with an outbreak of COVID-19, modifications of cancer management have been adopted to accommodate the crisis and minimize the exposure of cancer patients to the infection. In countries where COVID-19 numbers are subsiding, medical teams should also be prepared to resume normal practices gradually. Here, we aim to review the literature on the impact of COVID-19 on patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) as well as discuss modifications to the management of HCC during and after recovery from the pandemic.Summary:Based on current data, 10-40% of patients with COVID-19 have hepatic injury characterized by an elevation of transaminases and/or hyperbilirubinemia. Multiple mechanisms contribute to the hepatic injury, including direct viral entry to hepatocytes/cholangiocytes, immune-mediated hepatitis, hypoxia, and drug-related hepatotoxicity. In patients with HCC, COVID-19 may exacerbate existing chronic liver disease and complicate the management of cancer. Cancer patients generally have a higher risk of infection and worse outcome, especially those who have recently undergone cancer treatment. Although HCC is under-represented in COVID-19 series, mitigation measures should be implemented to minimize the exposure of patients to the virus. A decision on the treatment of HCC should be balanced with consideration of the availability of medical resources, the level of infection risk of COVID-19, and the risk-benefit ratio of the individual patient. In areas where the COVID-19 outbreak is subsiding, clinicians should be prepared to manage a surge of HCC patients with higher disease burdens and complications.Key messages:Mitigation measures to protect at-risk patients, such as those with cancers, from SARS-CoV-2 infection should be exercised and the impact of COVID-19 on this group of patients should be thoroughly studied.
Cirrhosis; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Pandemic; Virology.
