33072455
2020 Sep 14
Statins, the lipid-lowering drugs, and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD)/non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), a lipid-related pathology, share a complex relationship, one known to be hepatotoxic and other being hepatic injury. NASH is an unresolved mystery in terms of treatment. Could statins prove to be a promising solution due to their pleiotropic properties in addition to the cholesterol-lowering effect? This study aims to find statin effectiveness in NAFLD/NASH treatment and prevention of associated adverse outcomes. An extensive data search was done to identify the studies assessing statin effect on NAFLD/NASH and then analyzed to establish the relationship. Several studies demonstrated a reduction in NAFLD/NASH-associated inflammation and fibrosis with statin treatment. These anti-inflammatory and anti-fibrotic effects were through their pleiotropic properties, which were in addition to their cholesterol-lowering effect. In various animal studies, statins were found to improve hepatic lipotoxicity, oxidative stress, inflammatory responses, and fibrosis associated with NASH through multiple pathways. Statins exert these protective effects by recovering the gene expression level of peroxisomal proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARα) and therefore restore the mitochondrial and peroxisomal fatty acid oxidation (FAO). Statin treatment also increased the levels of paraoxonase 1 (PON1), an antioxidant and antiatherogenic enzyme that is reduced in NAFLD as well as encounter the hepatic lipotoxicity by resolving cholesterol crystals and Kupffer cells (KCs) with crown-like structures (CLSs). They exhibited antitumor properties by inhibiting proinflammatory cytokines and vascular proliferative factors. Moreover, they restored a healthy liver sinusoidal endothelial cell (LSEC) and hepatic stellate cells (HSC) along with inhibiting the activation of HSC via modulating inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and expressions of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS). Besides, they were protective against cardiovascular disease (CVD)-related morbidity and mortality, hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), and metabolic syndrome (MS) associated with NAFLD/NASH. NASH and its precursor, NAFLD, could be treated and prevented with statins owing to their pleiotropic properties. This study helps to prove this by looking back at different literature and has successfully enlightened the point. Once proved through large clinical trials on humans, it could revolutionize the NASH therapy.
cytokines; fatty acid oxidation; nafld; nash; nash and statins; statins; steatosis.
