25677057
2016 Oct
The liver is the most central organ and the largest gland of the body that influences and controls a variety of metabolic and catabolic processes. It produces inconceivable many essential proteins, is responsible for the recovery of various food components, degrades toxins, mediates the bile production, and is involved in the excretion of unwanted metabolites. Several of these anabolic or catabolic functions of the liver depend on trace elements. These are either integral part of enzymes, cofactors, or act as chemical catalysts. Therefore, a lack of trace elements can lead to organ failure or systemic illness. Conversely, excessive hepatic trace element deposition resulting from genetic disorders, intoxication, extensive dietary supply, or long-term parenteral nutrition may cause hepatic inflammation, fibrosis, cirrhosis, and even hepatocellular carcinoma. Although specific serum parameters currently allow rough assessment of metal deficit and excess, the precise quantification of hepatic metal content in liver is presently only possible by different titration or staining techniques of biopsy specimens. Recently, novel innovative metal imaging techniques were developed that are on the way to replace these traditional methods. In the present review, we summarize the function of different trace elements in liver health and disease and discuss the present knowledge on how quantitative biometal imaging techniques such as synchrotron X-ray fluorescence microscopy, secondary ion mass spectrometry, and laser ablation inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry enrich diagnostics in the detection and quantification of hepatic metal disorders. We will further discuss sample preparation, sensitivity, spatial resolution, specificity, quantification strategies, and potential future applications of metal bioimaging in experimental research and clinical daily routine. © 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Mass Spec Rev 35:666-686, 2016.
Wilson's disease; hemochromatosis; laser ablation inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry; liver; metal bioimaging; metal poisoning; secondary ion mass spectrometry; synchrotron X-ray fluorescence.
