26770445
2015 Oct 15
We discussed the diagnostic and treatment value and clinical significance of computer assisted surgery system (Higemi) in precision surgeries for pediatric complex liver tumors. A total of 21 pediatric cases receiving hepatectomy for tumors in the portal vein and giant liver tumors from June 2012 to January 2015 were analyzed. Higemi was used for 3-dimensional (3D) reconstruction of thin-slice CT images and surgical planning. Tumors were precisely located and blood vessel neighborhood was determined so as to evaluate surgical feasibility. In addition, pathological classification, surgical time, intraoperative blood loss, transfusion rate and complications were predicted. After 3D reconstruction using Higemi, the neighboring relationship of tumors with blood vessels and the running direction of the blood vessels were clearly visualized. Of 21 cases, 10 cases had tumors located in the left lobe, 5 cases in the right lobe, 3 cases showing involvement of right trilobes, and 3 cases in the middle lobe. Lobes exceeding one third of the total liver volume were resected in 18 cases. Postoperative pathological examination indicated 10 cases of hepatoblastoma, 3 cases of hepatocellular carcinoma, 3 cases of hamartoma, 3 cases of infantile hemangioendothelioma, 1 case of teratoma and 1 case of undifferentiated malignant mesenchymoma. The surgical time was 90-240 min with an average of 130 min; the medium intraoperative blood loss was 60 ml and the minimum blood loss was 3 ml; the transfusion rate was 42.9% (9/21). Surgeries were successful in 20 cases, who were discharged after recovery. However, one case had giant liver tumor combined with severe obstructive jaundice and hepatic insufficiency and died of postoperative liver failure and DIC. 3D reconstruction of CT data using Higemi can clearly visualize the running direction of blood vessels and the neighboring relationship with tumors. Higemi can improve the precision and safety of complex hepatectomy.
3D; Surgery; computer assisted; imaging; liver resection.
