27312064
2016 Sep
Hypoxia is known to be important in the generation and maintenance of stemness; however, its clinical significance is yet to be determined in human hepatocellular carcinoma. The expression of stemness (K19, EpCAM) and hypoxia (carbonic anhydrase-IX (CAIX))-related markers were investigated by immunohistochemistry in three hepatocellular carcinoma cohorts. The clinicopathologic features, response to transarterial chemoembolization, and outcomes were compared. In cohort 1 (n=14, biopsy-transarterial chemoembolization-resection-matched hepatocellular carcinoma), all K19-, EpCAM-, or CAIX-positive hepatocellular carcinomas on initial biopsy (6/6, 100%) showed residual tumors after transarterial chemoembolization, whereas 75% (6/8) of all-negative hepatocellular carcinomas on biopsy showed complete necrosis in the post-transarterial chemoembolization-resected specimens. In cohort 2 (n=85, explanted hepatocellular carcinomas with/without transarterial chemoembolization; totally necrotic hepatocellular carcinoma after transarterial chemoembolization was not included), the expression of K19, EpCAM, and CAIX, and their coexpression, was more frequently observed with a greater number of transarterial chemoembolization sessions, and the expression of these markers was also correlated to each other. CAIX expression was shown to be an independent factor for recurrence and survival, and combination of CAIX with Milan criteria significantly increased the time-dependent integrative area under the curve values for recurrence and survival. In cohort 3 (n=339, resected hepatocellular carcinomas without transarterial chemoembolization), CAIX(+) hepatocellular carcinomas exhibited higher K19 and EpCAM expression, and more invasive pathological features. CAIX expression and TNM stage were independent predictors of extrahepatic recurrence, and the addition of CAIX to the TNM stage significantly increased time-dependent integrative area under the curve values. In conclusion, the expression of stemness (K19, EpCAM) and hypoxia (CAIX)-related markers were correlated each other, and hepatocellular carcinoma expressing these markers showed resistance to transarterial chemoembolization and poorer outcome. Evaluation for both markers of stemness and hypoxia may have an additional value in predicting hepatocellular carcinoma outcome, especially for transarterial chemoembolization-treated hepatocellular carcinomas.

