27587210
2016 Sep 1
Objective:To discuss the application of liver visualization technology in complex liver tumor resection at the second hepatic portal area.Methods:Clinical data of 80 cases who received surgery at the second hepatic portal area from August 2014 to September 2015 in the Third Department of Hepatic Surgery of Eastern Hepatobiliary Surgery Hospital were analyzed retrospectively. There were 58 male and 22 female patients aged from 21 to 70 years with median age of 52 years. Median maximum diameter of tumor was 7.6 cm (3.0 to 17.0 cm). Before surgery, liver dimensional graphics produced by liver visualization technology were taken on all patients to observe the relationship between intrahepatic vasculars and the liver tumor, and to calculate the intended resection range and the remaining liver volume in order to make a proper surgery plan. Suitable hepatic vascular occlusion was applied in the tumor resection. Intrahepatic vessel shape and variation, surgical operation, surgical operation time, manner and time of hepatic vascular occlusion, blood loss, liver resection volume, postoperative complications were observed.Results:There were 23 patients who changed surgery plan after liver visualization technology.There were 44 cases with single main hepatic vein compressed by tumors, 32 cases with 2 main hepatic veins, 4 cases with 3 main hepatic veins compressed by tumors.And there were 58 cases with both hepatic vein and inferior vena cava compressed by tumor. Hepatic segments 6 and 7 was removed in 12 cases, 14 cases, hepatic segments 4, 5 and 8 were removed in 8 cases.Right hepatectomy was carried out in 9 patients and left hepatectomy was carried out in 8 patients. Right trisectionectomy was carried out in 3 patients and left trisectionectomy was applied in 5 patients.Local hepatectomy was performed in 12 patients. Nine patients received associating liver partition and portal vein ligation for staged hepatectomy. Four patients underwent total hepatic vascular exclusion, while 16 patients underwent selective hepatic vascular exclusion. The median surgical time was 132 minutes(80 to 240 minutes). Median blood loss volume was 580 ml(100-5 000 ml). Median volume of hepatic resection was 750 ml(30 to 2 000 ml). One patient needed secondary surgery to stop bleeding as a result of postoperative abdominal bleeding.Complication of postoperative bile leakage occurred in 14 cases.Five patients had pleural effusion requiring invasive therapy.Four patients had ascites requiring invasive therapy. Besides, 5 patients had incisive infection while 2 patients were found with pulmonary infection after surgery and two patients occurred biliary obstruction. There was no death case occurred a result of surgery.Conclusions:Using liver visualization technology to make surgical operation plan can improve surgical safety of the second hepatic portal area and optimize the operation plan. It can also reduce the risk of blood loss and postoperative complications such as liver failure.

