27686696
2016 Sep 29
Background:Genetically induced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) models are generally used to investigate carcinogenesis pathways, but very few attempts were made to valorize them for pharmacological testing. This study describes a micro-computed tomography (micro-CT) - based methodology for the diagnostic and lifelong follow-up of HCC in the hepatocyte-specific Trim24-null mouse line. Myo-inositol trispyrophosphate (ITPP) was tested as anti-cancer drug.Methods:Partial hepatectomy was performed in 2 months-old Trim24-null mice, in order to accelerate the carcinogenesis process. HCC diagnosis was obtained by micro-CT scan with double contrast agent: 10 μl/g Fenestra™ LC was injected intraperitoneally 6 h prior to imaging and 10 μl/g Fenestra™ VC was injected intravenously 15 min prior to imaging. Twenty three hepatocyte-specific Trim24-null mice were considered for ITPP testing (3 mg/g/week intraperitoneally during 10 months in 12 mice, versus 11 controls). Lifelong follow-up was performed using micro-CT. Comparative analysis was performed using unpaired t test with Welch correction and survival curves were compared by log-rank test. Gene expression analysis was performed using the RT q-PCR technique.Results:Double contrast micro-CT scan allowed HCC diagnosis as hypodense, isodense or hyperdense nodules. Positive predictive value was 81.3 %. Negative predictive value was 83.3 %. Tumor growth could be objectified by micro-CT scan before the ITPP treatment was started, and at 3 and 9 months follow-up. Significant progression of tumor volume was demonstrated in the both groups, with no difference between groups (p > 0.05). In the ITPP group, a mild decrease in tumor doubling time was first observed (31.9 +/- 12 days, p > 0.05) followed by a significant increase (59.8 +/- 18.3 days, p = 0.008). However, tumor doubling time was not different between groups (p > 0.05). Median survival after treatment initiation was 223 days (controls) versus 296 days (ITPP group, p = 0.0027). HIF1α, VEGF, glutamine synthase, osteopontin expression levels were not significantly modified at the end of follow-up. In the ITPP group, the p53 expression profile was inversed as compared to the control group, higher in non-tumor livers than in tumors.Conclusion:ITPP treatment allowed for a two-month survival improvement, with better tolerance of tumor burden and apoptosis increase in non-tumor, pathological livers.
Genetically induced hepatocellular carcinoma; Hepatocyte-specific Trim24-null mouse; High-resolution micro-computed tomography (micro-CT-scan); Myo-inositol trispyrophosphate (ITPP); Transgenic mouse.
