29676779
2018 Aug
The proinflammatory cytokines interleukin (IL)-17 and tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-α are targets for treatment in many chronic inflammatory diseases. Here, we examined their role in liver inflammatory response compared to that of IL-6. Human hepatoma cells (HepaRG, Huh7.5 and HepG2 cells) and primary human hepatocytes (PHH) were cultured with IL-6, IL-17 and/or TNF-α. To determine the contribution of the IL-6 pathway in the IL-17/TNF-α-mediated effect, an anti-IL-6 receptor antibody was used. IL-17 and TNF-α increased in synergy IL-6 secretion by HepaRG cells and PHH but not by Huh7.5 and HepG2 cells. This IL-17/TNF-α synergistic cooperation enhanced the levels of C-reactive protein (CRP) and aspartate aminotransferase (ASAT) in HepaRG cell and PHH cultures through the induction of IL-6. IL-17/TNF-α also up-regulated IL-8, monocyte chemoattractant protein (MCP)-1 and chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 20 (CCL20) chemokines in synergy through an IL-6-independent pathway. Interestingly, first exposure to IL-17, but not to TNF-α, was crucial for the initiation of the IL-17/TNF-α synergistic effect on IL-6 and IL-8 production. In HepaRG cells, IL-17 enhanced IL-6 mRNA stability resulting in increased IL-6 protein levels. The IL-17A/TNF-α synergistic effect on IL-6 and IL-8 induction was mediated through the activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK)-mitogen-activated protein kinase, nuclear factor-κB and/or protein kinase B (Akt)-phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase signalling pathways. Therefore, the IL-17/TNF-α synergistic interaction mediates systemic inflammation and cell damage in hepatocytes mainly through IL-6 for CRP and ASAT induction. Independently of IL-6, the IL-17A/TNF-α combination may also induce immune cell recruitment by chemokine up-regulation. IL-17 and/or TNF-α neutralization can be a promising therapeutic strategy to control both systemic inflammation and liver cell attraction.
hepatocyte; inflammation; interleukin-17; interleukin-6; tumour necrosis factor-α.
