29861325
2018 Aug
Background:Chimeric antigen receptor-engineered T-cell (CAR-T) therapy is a newly developed immunotherapy used in the treatment of cancers. Because CAR-T therapy has shown great success in treating CD19-positive hematological malignancies, its application has been explored in the treatment of solid tumors, such as liver cancer. In this review, we discuss the immune characteristics of liver cancer, the obstacles encountered during the application of CAR-T therapy, and preclinical and clinical progress in the use of CAR-T therapy in patients with liver cancer.Data sources:The data on CAR-T therapy related to liver cancers were collected by searching PubMed and the Web of Science databases prior to December 2017 with the keywords "chimeric antigen receptor", "CAR-T", "liver cancer", "hepatocellular carcinoma", and "solid tumor". Additional articles were identified by manual search of references found in the primary articles. The data for clinical trials were collected by searching ClinicalTrials.gov.Results:The liver has a tolerogenic nature in the intrahepatic milieu and its tumor microenvironment significantly affects tumor progression. The obstacles that reduce the efficacy of CAR-T therapy in solid tumors include a lack of specific tumor antigens, limited trafficking and penetration of CAR-T cells to tumor sites, and an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment. To overcome these obstacles, several strategies have emerged. In addition, several strategies have been developed to manage the side effects of CAR-T, including enhancing the selectivity of CARs and controlling CAR-T activity. To date, no clinical trials of CAR-T therapy against HCC have been completed. However, preclinical studies in vitro and in vivo have shown potent antitumor efficacy. Glypican-3, mucin-1, epithelial cell adhesion molecule, carcinoembryonic antigen, and other targets are currently being studied.Conclusions:The application of CAR-T therapy for liver cancer is just beginning to be explored and more research is needed. However, we are optimistic that CAR-T therapy will offer a new approach for the treatment of liver cancers in the future.
Chimeric antigen receptor-engineered T-cell therapy; Immunotherapy; Liver cancer; Tumor-associated antigen.
