30022768
2018 Aug 14
Because of the concerns associated with radiation exposure at a young age, there is an increased interest in pediatric absorbed dose estimates for imaging agents. Almost all reported pediatric absorbed dose estimates, however, have been determined using adult pharmacokinetic data with radionuclide S values that take into account the anatomical differences between adults and children based upon the older Cristy-Eckerman (C-E) stylized phantoms. In this work, we use pediatric model-derived pharmacokinetics to compare absorbed dose and effective dose estimates for 18F-FDG in pediatric patients using S values generated from two different geometries of computational phantoms. Time-integrated activity coefficients of 18F-FDG in brain, lungs, heart wall, kidneys and liver, retrospectively, calculated from 35 pediatric patients at the Boston's Children Hospital were used. The absorbed dose calculation was performed in accordance with the Medical Internal Radiation Dose method using S values generated from the University of Florida/National Cancer Institute (UF/NCI) hybrid phantoms, as well as those from C-E stylized computational phantoms. The effective dose was computed using tissue-weighting factors from ICRP Publication 60 and ICRP Publication 103 for the C-E and UF/NCI, respectively. Substantial differences in the absorbed dose estimates between UF/NCI hybrid pediatric phantoms and the C-E stylized phantoms were found for the lungs, ovaries, red bone marrow and urinary bladder wall. Large discrepancies in the calculated dose values were observed in the bone marrow; ranging between -26% to +199%. The effective doses computed by the UF/NCI hybrid phantom S values were slightly different than those seen using the C-E stylized phantoms with percent differences of -0.7%, 2.9% and 2.5% for a newborn, 1 year old and 5 year old, respectively. Differences in anatomical modeling features among computational phantoms used to perform Monte Carlo-based photon and electron transport simulations for 18F, and very likely for other radionuclides, impact internal organ dosimetry computations for pediatric nuclear medicine studies.

