30068299
2018 Aug 2
Background:Cases of non-traumatic splenic rupture are rare and entails a potentially grave medical outcome. Hence, it is important to consider the differential diagnosis of a non-traumatic splenic rupture in patients with acute or insidious abdominal pain. The incidence of rupture in Diffuse B-cell non-Hodgkin Lymphoma is highly infrequent (Paulvannan and Pye, Int J Clin Pract 57:245-6, 2003; Gedik et el., World J Gastroenterol 14:6711-6716, 2008), despite reports of various non-traumatic splenic rupture in the literature (Orloff and Peksin, Int Abstr Surg 106:1-11, 1958; Paulvannan and Pye, Int J Clin Pract 57:245-6, 2003). In this article, we attempt to highlight the features of a rare cause of splenic rupture that might serve as a future reference point for the detection of similar cases during routine clinical practice.Case presentation:A 40-year-old man presented with 1 week history of left hypochondriac pain associated with abdominal distention. There was no history of preceding trauma or fever. Clinical examination revealed signs of tachycardia, pallor and splenomegaly. He had no evidence of peripheral stigmata of chronic liver disease. In addition, haematological investigation showed anemia with leucocytosis and raised levels of lactate dehydrogenase enzyme. However, peripheral blood film revealed no evidence of any blast or atypical cells. In view of these findings, imaging via ultrasound and computed tomography of the abdomen was performed. The results of these imaging tests showed splenic collections that was suggestive of splenic rupture and hematoma. Patient underwent emergency splenectomy and the histopathological report confirmed the diagnosis as DLBCL.Conclusions:The occurrence of true spontaneous splenic rupture is uncommon. In a recent systematic review of 613 cases of splenic rupture, only 84 cases were secondary to hematological malignancy. Acute leukemia and non-Hodgkin lymphoma were the most frequent causes of splenic rupture, followed by chronic and acute myelogeneous leukemias. At present, only a few cases of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) have been reported. The morbidity and mortality rate is greatly increased when there is a delay in the diagnosis and intervention of splenic rupture cases. Hence, there should be an increased awareness amongst both physicians and surgeons that a non-traumatic splenic rupture could be the first clinical presentation of a DLBCL.
Lymphoma; Non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma; Non-traumatic splenic rupture.
