30107667
2018 Aug 8
Objective: To investigate the clinicopathologic and genetic features, pathologic diagnosis and differential diagnosis of angiofibroma of soft tissue(AFST). Methods: The clinicopathologic characteristics of 24 cases diagnosed at Fudan University Shanghai Cancer Center from 2011 to 2017 were analyzed; immunohistochemical staining and interphase fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) were performed, and the literatures were also reviewed. Results: There were 15 male and 9 female (male∶female=1.7∶1.0) patients with age of onset ranging from 8 to 68 years (mean, 45 years). Fourteen cases occurred in extremities, including upper limbs (n=3) and lower limbs (n=11); seven cases were in the trunk, and 1 case each was in the temporal region, retroperitoneum and liver, respectively. Clinically, the tumors usually presented as a slowly growing painless mass. Tumor sizes ranged from 0.8 to 14 cm (mean 4.6 cm). Microscopically, most lesions were well-circumscribed, with fibrous capsules. Few cases infiltrated the surrounding fibrofatty tissue focally. The tumors were mainly composed of sparse short spindle cells and numerous small, branching, thin-walled blood vessels distributed in amyxoid, fibromyxoid or collagenous matrix, often accompanied by medium-sized, round or irregular and ecstatic vessels at the tumor periphery.By immunohistochemistry, all tested cases expressed vimentin (5/5), and showed variable positivity for EMA (2/4), ER (1/2), PR (2/3), α-SMA (1/18)and desmin (1/10). Ki-67 proliferation index were all less than 5%. CD34, CD31 and ERG staining clearly outlined the contours of blood vessels in the stroma. Four cases were tested for NCOA2 gene rearrangement by FISH, of which three were positive. Follow-up data was available in 17 patients (range, 3 to 69 months; mean, 30 months) were all free of disease. Conclusions: Soft tissue angiofibroma is a benign fibroblastic neoplasm characterized by a prominent and complex vasculature set in a myxoid-to-collagenous stroma, and cytogenetically a distinctive NCOA2 gene rearrangement. Caution should be exercised for the possibility of potentially misinterpretation of AFST as vascular tumors and other myxoid soft tissue tumors.
Angiofibroma; Diagnosis, differential; Immunohistochemistry; In situ hybridization, fluorescence.
