30122881
2018 Aug 14
Aim:To construct a long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) signature for predicting hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) prognosis with high efficiency.Methods:Differentially expressed lncRNAs (DELs) between HCC specimens and peritumor liver specimens were identified using the edgeR package to analyze The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) LIHC dataset. Univariate Cox proportional hazards regression was performed to obtain the DELs significantly associated with overall survival (OS) in a training set. These OS-related DELs were further analyzed using a stepwise multivariate Cox regression model. Those lncRNAs fitted in the multivariate Cox regression model and independently associated with overall survival were chosen to build a prognostic risk formula. The prognostic value of this formula was then validated in the test group and the entire cohort and further compared with two previously identified prognostic signatures for HCC. Gene ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway analyses were performed to explore the potential biological functions of the lncRNAs in the signature.Results:Based on lncRNA expression profiling of 370 HCC patients from the TCGA database, we constructed a 5-lncRNA signature (AC015908.3, AC091057.3, TMCC1-AS1, DCST1-AS1 and FOXD2-AS1) that was significantly associated with prognosis. HCC patients with high-risk scores based on the expression of the 5 lncRNAs had significantly shorter survival times compared to patients with low-risk scores in both the training and test groups. Multivariate Cox regression analysis demonstrated that the prognostic value of the 5 lncRNAs was independent of clinicopathological parameters. A comparison study involving two previously identified prognostic signatures for HCC demonstrated that this 5-lncRNA signature showed improved prognostic power compared with the other two signatures. Functional enrichment analysis indicated that the 5 lncRNAs were potentially involved in metabolic processes, fibrinolysis and complement activation.Conclusion:Our present study constructed a 5-lncRNA signature that improves survival prediction and can be used as a prognostic biomarker for HCC patients.
Hepatocellular carcinoma; Long non-coding RNA; Prognosis; Prognostic biomarker; Survival prediction.
