30127666
2018 Aug 14
Background:Cytokine-based cancer therapies have attracted a great deal of attention in recent years. Unfortunately, resistance to treatment limits the efficacy of these therapeutics. Therefore, the aim of our study was to explore the mechanism of IL-2-based therapy for hepatocellular carcinoma in an attempt to increase the efficiency of this treatment option.Methods:HepG2 cells were treated with IL-2. Then, siRNA against TZA was used to transfected into HepG2 cells. Cellular apoptosis was measured via MTT assay, TUNEL assay and caspase-3 activity. Cellular proliferation was evaluated via EdU assay and western blotting. Cellular migration was detected via Transwell assay. Mitochondrial function was monitored by mitochondrial potential analysis, ROS staining, immunofluorescence and western blotting. Pathway blocker and activator were used to establish the role of JNK/F-actin/mitochondrial fission signaling pathway in HepG2 cells stress response.Results:Our study found that IL-2 treatment significantly reduced the viability, mobility and proliferation of HepG2 cells in vitro. We also demonstrated that IL-2 treatment was accompanied by an increase in the expression of transcriptional co-activator with PDZ-binding motif (TAZ). Interestingly, genetic ablation of TAZ in the presence of IL-2 further promoted apoptosis, inhibited mobility, and arrested proliferation in HepG2 cells. At the molecular level, IL-2 administration activated excessive mitochondrial fission via the JNK/F-actin pathway; these effects were further enhanced by TAZ deletion. Mechanistically, TAZ knockdown further increased the expression of mitochondrial fission-related proteins such as Drp1, Mff and Fis. The augmented mitochondrial fission stimulated ROS overproduction, mediated redox imbalance, interrupted mitochondrial energy generation, reduced mitochondrial membrane potential, promoted leakage of the pro-apoptotic molecule cyt-c into the nucleus, and initiated caspase-9-related mitochondrial death. Further, we demonstrated that the anti-proliferative and anti-metastatic effects of IL-2 in HepG2 cells were enhanced by TAZ deletion, suggesting that IL-2 sensitizes HepG2 cells to IL-2-based cytokine therapy. However, JNK/F-actin pathway blockade could abrogate the inhibitory effects of TAZ deletion on HepG2 migration, proliferation and survival.Conclusions:Taken together, our data indicate that the anti-tumor effects of IL-2-based therapies may be enhanced by TAZ deletion in a JNK/F-actin pathway-dependent manner. This finding provides a novel combinatorial therapeutic approach for treating hepatocellular carcinoma that might significantly increase the efficacy of cytokine-based therapies in a clinical setting.
Apoptosis; HepG2 cells; IL-2; Mitochondrial damage; Mitochondrial fission; TAZ.
