30139211
2018 Aug 24
Objective: A long persistent of Chronic Hepatitis B (CHB) infection may develop liver cirrhosis or hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and about one million people die due to HBV -related liver cancer and end-stage liver disease annually worldwide. The natural history of CHB phases comprises four phases: immune tolerant (HBeAg detectable and ALT (Alanine Transaminase) normal, HBeAg-positive immune active (HBeAg detectable, anti-HBe antibodies undetectable and ALT persistently elevated), HBeAg-negative immune active (HBeAg undetectable, anti-HBe antibodies present and ALT persistently elevated), inactive carrier (HBeAg undetectable, anti-HBe antibodies present and ALT normal). The evaluation of chronic hepatitis B phases is a crucial to manage the burden of disease and limit the development of associated complications, such as cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Thus this study conducted to evaluate the natural history of HBV infection in patients with chronic HBV infection in Ahvaz city, Iran. Methods: In this study, 71 non-treated CHB individuals were recruited including 44 (62%) males and 27(38%) females. The sera were tested for HBV markers, HBsAg, HBcIgG, HBeAg, and HBeAb. ALT assay and HBV viral load were carried out for each CHB individual. Results: Based on the analysis of serological, ALT status and viral load, the results showed: immune tolerance 5(7%), eAg+ Immune Clearance 14(19.7%), eAg- Immune Clearance 29 (40.84%) and Inactive Carrier 23 (32.39%). The HBeAg seroconversion was observed in a male age 18 year. Conclusion: The results of the natural history of individuals with chronic hepatitis B phases CHB shows immune tolerance (7%), eAg+ Immune Clearance (19.7%), eAg- Immune Clearance (40.84%) and Inactive Carrier (32.39%). To prevent the consequence of CHB infection, an individual in immune tolerance phase should be tested periodically for ALT level, HBV markers, HBsAg, HBcIgG, HBeAg, HBeAb and HBV viral load. Then decision-making therapy can be applied for CHB patients at early stage of immune clearance.
Chronic Hepatitis B (CHB); BsAg; HBeAg; Alanine Aminotransferase (ALT); Real-Time PCR.
