30174763
2018 Aug 17
Background:The annually recorded incidence of primary hepatic carcinomas has significantly increased over the past two decades accounting for over 800 thousand of annual deaths caused by hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) alone globally. Further, secondary liver malignancies are much more widespread compared to primary hepatic carcinomas: almost all solid malignancies are able to metastasise into the liver. The primary tumours most frequently metastasising to the liver are breast followed by colorectal carcinomas. Given the increased incidence of both primary and metastatic liver cancers, a new, revised approach is needed to advance medical care based on predictive diagnostics, innovative screening programmes, targeted preventive measures, and patient stratification for treatment algorithms tailored to individualised patient profile.Advantages of the approach taken:The current pilot study took advantage of systemic alterations characteristic for liver malignancies, utilising liquid biopsy (blood samples) and specific biomarker patterns detected. Key molecular pathways relevant for pathomechanisms of liver cancers have been considered opening a perspective for both-individualised diagnostics and targeted treatment. Systemic alterations have been analysed prior to the therapy application avoiding molecular biological effects potentially diminishing predictive power of the biomarker-panel proposed. Multi-omics at DNA and protein (both expression and activity) levels has been applied. An established biomarker panel is considered as a powerful tool for individualised patient profiling and improved multi-level diagnostics-both predictive and prognostic ones.Results and conclusions:Biomarker panels have been created for the patient stratification, prediction of a more optimal therapy and prognosis of survival based on the individualised patient profiling. Although there are some limitations of the pilot study performed, the results are encouraging, as it may be possible, through further research along these lines, to find a clinically and cost-effective means of stratifying liver cancer patients for personalised care and therapy. The benefits to the patient and society of accurate treatment stratification cannot be overemphasised.
Biomarker pattern; Breast cancer; Colorectal cancer; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Individual outcome; Metastatic disease; Multi-omics; Predictive preventive personalised medicine; Selective internal radiation therapy (SIRT); Survival; Transarterial chemoembolisation (TACE).
