28069363
2017 Feb 15
Background:Neutralizing antibodies (anti-HBs) after immunization with hepatitis B virus (HBV) vaccines against HBV surface antigen (HBsAg) wane after 10-15years. We analyzed the effect of an adolescent booster given to vaccination-protected children born to mothers with different HBsAg-carrying status against HBV infection in their mature adulthood.Methods:A total of 9793 individuals, who were HBsAg-negative at childhood (baseline) and donated blood samples, both during childhood and adulthood, from the vaccination group in "Qidong Hepatitis B Intervention Study", were enrolled. Among them 7414 received a one-dose, 10μg-recombinant HBV vaccine booster at 10-14years of age. At endpoint (23-28years of age), we determined the HBV serological markers and quantified their serum HBV-DNA in each of the chronic HBV-infected adults.Results:Fifty-seven adults were identified as chronic HBV infection, indicated by HBsAg(+)&anti-HBc(+) for more than 6months. The individuals who were born to HBsAg-positive mothers (high-risk adults) had significantly increased risk of developing chronic HBV infections in adulthood compared with those who were born to HBsAg-negative mothers; the adjusted odds ratio (OR) was 12.56, 95%CI:7.14-22.08. The seronegative status of anti-HBs at 10-11years of age significantly increased the risk of HBV infections among the high-risk adults. When HBsAg(-)&anti-HBc(+) children who were born to HBsAg-positive mothers 70% of them remained as the status and 10% of them developed HBsAg(+)&anti-HBc(+). While when they were born to HBsAg-negative mothers 1.05% HBsAg(-)&anti-HBc(+) children developed HBsAg(+)&anti-HBc(+) and 24.74% of them remained as the status in 12-18years. One dose of adolescent booster showed significant protection on high-risk adults from chronic HBV infection; P for trend was 0.015.Conclusions:Maternal HBsAg-positive status was an independent risk factor for vaccination-protected children to develop HBV breakthrough infection in adulthood. Adolescent boosters might be appropriate for high-risk individuals who were born to HBsAg-positive mothers when their serum anti-HBs<10mIU/ml.
Adolescent booster; Adulthood; Hepatitis B virus; Maternal HBsAg status; Vaccination.
