28105582
2017 Feb
The International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) has classified two liver flukes as carcinogenic to humans (Group 1): Opisthorchis viverrini in 1994 and Clonorchis sinensis in 2009. This review is focused on O. viverrini, the most studied of these two trematodes, which infects nearly 10 million people in Southeast Asia. The life cycle involves two intermediate hosts living in fresh water: a snail of the genus Bithynia and a ciprinid fish. The definitive hosts (human, cat, dog) become infected by ingesting raw fish containing metacercariae, the infective stage of the parasite. Adult flukes attach to the epithelium of the bile ducts where they feed for as long as 10 to 30 years, resulting in chronic inflammation, epithelial hyperplasia, periductal fibrosis and formation of granuloma. For a long asymptomatic, the distomatosis is revealed by a chronic cholangitis when the parasite load becomes high. Complications can occur with time: gallstones, cholangitis, liver abscess, pancreatitis and, after a few decades, cholangiocarcinoma (CCA). The epidemiological correlation between the prevalence of O. viverrini infection and the incidence of CCA has been demonstrated in the northeast of Thailand. Specifically, the Khon Kaen province has the highest incidence rate in the world. The CCA can develop asymptomatically for a long time, especially in intrahepatic locations. It is often discovered at a late stage, unresectable. Its prognosis is dreadful with a survival rate less than 5% at 5 years. The phenomenon of carcinogenesis induced by O. viverrini is multifactorial. It has been specially studied using experimental infection on the Syrian golden hamster. Three intricated mechanisms are involved: (i) the direct damage caused by adult worms on the bile duct epithelium, (ii) the immunopathologic processes related to chronic inflammation (oxidative stress) and (iii) the mitogenic and anti-apoptotic effects of the proteins secreted by the parasite. Exogenous cofactors are also involved, such as nitrosamines in fish-based dishes undercoocked or fermented, very popular in these endemic regions. Despite the effectiveness of praziquantel to successfully cure this distomatose, opisthorchiasis persists endemic in areas where the incidence of CCA tends to progress. Mass deworming campaigns are ineffective due to the frequency of reinfection in the exposed population. Repeating alternatively cures and reinfections may promote carcinogenesis. The failure of prevention programs reflects the difficulty of changing the traditional habits of consuming raw or fermented fish. Pending a vaccine prophylaxis, control strategies are based on integrated measures involving the treatment of reservoir hosts, sanitation and efforts of continuing information and education to deter the consumption of uncooked fish and to improve the sanitation in rural areas.
Carcinogenesis; Cholangiocarcinoma; Distomatosis; Opisthorchis viverrini; Southeast Asia.
