28202430
2017 Feb 15
Background:Untreated advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) has an overall poor prognosis. Currently there are 2 ongoing prospective randomized controlled trials that are evaluating the efficacy and safety of sorafenib and selective internal radiation therapy (SIRT) with yttrium-90 resin microspheres in patients with advanced HCC. The SorAfenib versus Radioembolisation in Advanced Hepatocellular carcinoma (SARAH; 459 patients) trial is being performed in Europe and the SIRt VErsus SorafeNIB (SIRveNIB; 360 patients) trial in the Asia Pacific region. Prospectively combining the results, these trials will not only allow for increased precision to estimate efficacy (in terms of survival), but will also provide increased statistical power for subgroup analyses.Objective:To ensure the prospectivity and transparency of the meta-analysis.Methods:The sirVEnib and SARAH merge PROject (VESPRO) is an individual, patient-data prospective meta-analysis of the SIRveNIB and SARAH randomized trials. The VESPRO protocol includes prespecified hypotheses, inclusion criteria, and outcome measures. The primary outcome measure is overall survival and secondary outcomes include tumor response rate, progression-free survival, progression in the liver as first event, and disease control in the liver. Pooling of toxicity results will allow for robust safety profiles to be established for both therapies, and provides increased statistical power to investigate treatment effects in key subgroups. Analyses will be performed in the intent-to-treat population stratified by trial.Results:Both studies are expected to demonstrate a survival benefit for SIRT together with a better toxicity profile compared with sorafenib. It is also anticipated that liver progression as the first event would be longer in the intervention compared with the control.Conclusions:As the results of the 2 trials are not yet known, the methodological strength is enhanced, as biases inherent in conventional meta-analyses are avoided. This has the effect of providing this meta-analysis with the advantages of a single, large,randomized study of 819 patients. It is anticipated that the SARAH and SIRveNIB trial results will be published separately and together with the combined meta-analysis results from VESPRO. The combined dataset will allow the effect of the interventions to be explored with improved reliability/precision with respect to prespecified patient and intervention-level characteristics.Trial registration:Australian New Zealand Trials Registry: ACTRN12617000030370.
advanced hepatocellular carcinoma; individual patient data prospective meta-analysis; noninferiority; percentage of active control retained; selective internal radiation therapy; sorafenib.
