28260480
2017 Feb
Objectives:Liver transplant is a definite treatment of decompensated liver disease. Because of the shortage of livers from deceased donors, living-donor liver transplant is becoming more common. Here, we analyzed our clinical experience in the follow-up care of these patients.Materials and methods:Liver transplant recipients seen at the Sindh Institute of Urology and Transplantation (Karachi, Pakistan) were included in this analysis. Baseline characteristics and follow-up events were recorded.Results:Our study population included 76 liver transplant patients registered at our clinic. Median age was 42 years, with 62 patients (81.6%) being males. The most common indication of transplant was hepatitis C virus-related cirrhosis (42 patients; 55%), followed by hepatitis B-hepatitis D virus coinfection (8 patients; 10.5%). Anastomotic biliary stricture developed in 16 patients (21.1%),which required biliary stenting. Biliary leak developed in 5 patients (6.6%), and renal cell carcinoma developed in 1 patient. Two recipients died due to hepatitis C virus-related fibrosing cholestasis hepatitis and pulmonary com plications. Posttransplant diabetes mellitus developed in 36 (47.1%), hypertension in 17 (38.6%), and dyslipidemia in 19 patients (25%). Of 42 patients with hepatitis C virus infection, 26 were treated with pegylated interferon and ribavirin, of which 65.3% achieved sustained virologic response at 24 weeks. The other 16 patients received sofosbuvir com - bined with ribavirin for 24 weeks. A sustained virologic response at 12 weeks was achieved in 5 patients, with not yet determined results in the remaining patients. Seven patients were lost to follow-up.Conclusions:Hepatitis C-related cirrhosis was the most common indication for liver transplant, and infection recurrence was observed in our patients. Biliary anastomotic stricture formation was the most prevalent complication after transplant. As liver transplants are becoming more widely available for Pakistani patients at home and abroad, gastroenterologists and trainees in our country should be sensitized, educated, and skilled in the posttransplant care of these patients.

