28959630
2017 Feb 12
Interactions between hepatocytes and immune cells as well as inflammatory episodes are frequently discussed to play a critical role in the alteration of the individual susceptibility to idiosyncratic drug-induced liver injury (iDILI). To evaluate this hypothesis and to face the urgent need for predictive in vitro models, we established two co-culture systems based on two human cell lines in presence or absence of pro-inflammatory factors (LPS, TNF), i.e. hepatoma HepG2 cells co-cultured with monocytic or macrophage-like THP-1 cells. HepG2 monocultures served as control scenario. Mono- or co-cultures were treated with iDILI reference substances (Troglitazone [TGZ], Trovafloxacin [TVX], Diclofenac [DcL], Ketoconazole [KC]) or their non-iDILI partner compounds (Rosiglitazone, Levofloxacin, Acetylsalicylic Acid, Fluconazole). The liver cell viability was subsequently determined via WST-Assay. An enhanced cytotoxicity (synergy) or a hormetic response compared to the drug effect in the HepG2 monoculture was considered as iDILI positive. TGZ synergized in co-cultures with monocytes without an additional pro-inflammatory stimulus, while DcL and KC showed a hormetic response. All iDILI drugs synergized with TNF in the simple HepG2 monoculture, indicating its relevance as an initiator of iDILI. KC showed a synergy when co-exposed to both, monocytes and LPS, while TVX and DcL showed a synergy under the same conditions with macrophages. All described iDILI responses were not observed with the corresponding non-iDILI partner compounds. Our first results confirm that an inflammatory environment increases the sensitivity of liver cells towards iDILI compounds and point to an involvement of pro-inflammatory factors, especially TNF, in the development of iDILI.
CD, cluster of differentiation; Co-culture model; DAMP, damage-associated molecular pattern; Drug-induced liver injury; EC, effective concentration; EpCAM, epithelial cellular adhesion molecule; HSP, heat shock protein; Idiosyncratic; Inflammation; JNK, c-Jun N-terminal kinase; LPS, bacterial lipopolysaccharide; NF-κB, nuclear factor kappa B; NPC, non-parenchymal cell; NSAID, nonsteriodal anti-inflammatory drug; PAMP, pathogen-associated molecular pattern; Preclinical research; SD, standard deviation; TNF, tumor necrosis factor; iDILI, idiosyncratic drug-induced liver injury.
