30630559
2019 Jan
Objective:To analyse the impact of dezocine-remifentanil intravenous anaesthesia on perioperative signs, serum tumour necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), and interleukin-6 (IL-6) in liver cancer patients undergoing radiofrequency ablation (RFA).Study design:An experimental study.Place and duration of study:Renmin Hospital of Wuhan University, Wuhan, China, from January 2017 to February 2018.Methodology:Eighty patients with small hepatocellular carcinoma (SHCC) were selected as the research object. They were divided into Group A and Group B with the random number table method, with 40 cases in each group. Group A were given dezocine-remifentanil intravenous anaesthesia and Group B were given midazolam-remifentanil intravenous anaesthesia. Patients' situations in the surgery were compared between the two groups. Changes in heart rate (HR), mean arterial pressure (MAP) and blood oxygen saturation (SpO2) were recorded before the surgery (T0), at 5 minutes after the RFA (T1) and at the end of the RFA (T2). Levels of tumour necrosis factor-&alpha; (TNF-&alpha;) and interleukin-6 (IL-6) on the 12 day after the RFA were compared between the two groups.Results:The wake-up time in Group A was shorter than Group B (p1, the MAP in Group A was higher than Group B (p0 and T2 (p=0.881, 0.696, respectively). At T1 and T2, the HR in Group A was lower than Group B (all p0 (p=0.684). There was no significant difference in SpO2 between the two groups at T0, T1 and T2 (p=0.654, 0.884 and 0.798, respectively). On the 1st day after the RFA, the level of TNF-&alpha;, IL-6 in Group A were lower than those of Group B (all pConclusion:Compared with midazolam-remifentanil intravenous anaesthesia, the dezocine-remifentanil method has a better analgesic effect, shorter wake-up time, and can effectively regulate the expression of inflammatory cytokines TNF-&alpha; and IL-6. However, the effect of remifentanil on the respiratory function is dose-dependent. Therefore, respiratory cycle monitoring and management should be strengthened during the surgery.

