30665442
2019 Jan 21
Background:Breast cancer (BCa) remains as the second leading cause of cancer-related death in women worldwide. The majority of the deaths are due to its progression to metastatic BCa. Although Grb2-associated binding protein 1 (Gab1) has been implicated in tumor proliferation and metastasis in multiple tumors including colorectal cancer, hepatocellular carcinoma and ovarian cancer, whether and how it regulates BCa metastasis are still poorly understood.Methods:Western blot assay and immunohistochemical (IHC) staining were performed to assess expression of Gab1 in primary and metastatic BCa clinical samples. Biological function assay studies in vitro and in vivo were employed to investigate the functions of Gab1 during BCa metastasis. Co-immunoprecipitation (co-IP) assessment, western blot assay and immunofluorescence (IF) staining were carried out to investigate the underlying mechanism for the function of Gab1 on BCa metastasis.Results:In this study, we found that expression level of Gab1 was increased significantly in BCa tissue samples compared to that in benign mammary hyperplastic tissues. Furthermore, elevated expression of Gab1 was positively associated with metastasis in HER2 and TNBC subtypes of BCa. In BCa cell line MDA-MB-231 and SK-BR3 cells, stable overexpression of Gab1 promoted, while knockdown of Gab1 inhibited cell migration in vitro and metastasis in vivo. Mechanistically, overexpression of Gab1 enhanced its interaction with Par3, a key component of the polarity-associated partitioning defective (PAR) complex, leading to a dissociation of the PAR complex. Consequently, dissociated PAR complex induced epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) for breast tumor metastasis. By restoration assessment, we found that only re-expression of a fully functional Gab1, but not a mutant Gab1 that harbors either Par3 binding-deficiency or Par1b binding-deficiency, could reverse the repressive phenotype of cell migration in vitro and metastasis in vivo due to Gab1 knockdown.Conclusions:Our findings indicate that elevated expression of Gab1 promotes BCa metastasis by dissociating the PAR complex that leads to EMT, implicating a role of Gab1 as a potential biomarker of metastatic BCa. Moreover, inhibition of Gab1 expression might be a promising therapeutic strategy for BCa metastasis.
Breast cancer; EMT; Gab1; Metastasis; PAR complex.
