30678274
2019 Jan 22
Liver cancer is a very common and significant health problem. Therefore, powerful molecular targeting agents are urgently needed. Previously, we demonstrated that secalonic acid-F (SAF) suppresses the growth of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cells (HepG2), but the other anticancer biological functions and the underlying mechanism of SAF on HCC are unknown. In this study, we found that SAF, which was isolated from a fungal strain in our lab identified as Aspergillus aculeatus, could inhibit the progression of hepatocellular carcinoma by targeting MARCH1, which regulates the PI3K/AKT/β-catenin and antiapoptotic Mcl-1/Bcl-2 signaling cascades. First, we confirmed that SAF reduced the proliferation and colony formation of HCC cell lines (HepG2 and Hep3B), promoted cell apoptosis, and inhibited the cell cycle in HepG2 and Hep3B cells in a dose-dependent manner. In addition, the migration and invasion of HepG2 and Hep3B cells treated with SAF were significantly suppressed. Western blot analysis showed that the level of MARCH1 was downregulated by pretreatment with SAF through the regulation of the PI3K/AKT/β-catenin signaling pathways. Moreover, knockdown of MARCH1 by small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) targeting MARCH1 also suppressed the proliferation, colony formation, migration, and invasion as well as increased the apoptotic rate of HepG2 and Hep3B cells. These data confirmed that the downregulation of MARCH1 could inhibit the progression of hepatocellular carcinoma and that the mechanism may be via PI3K/AKT/β-catenin inactivation as well as the downregulation of the antiapoptotic Mcl-1/Bcl-2. In vivo, the downregulation of MARCH1 by treatment with SAF markedly inhibited tumor growth, suggesting that SAF partly blocks MARCH1 and further regulates the PI3K/AKT/β-catenin and antiapoptosis Mcl-1/Bcl-2 signaling cascade in the HCC nude mouse model. Additionally, the apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) values, derived from magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), were increased in tumors after SAF treatment in a mouse model. Taken together, our findings suggest that MARCH1 is a potential molecular target for HCC treatment and that SAF is a promising agent targeting MARCH1 to treat liver cancer patients.
MARCH1; PI3K/AKT/β-catenin; hepatocellular carcinoma; magnetic resonance imaging; proliferation; secalonic acid-F.
