30691509
2019 Jan 28
Background:Tobacco smoke (TS) critically contributes to the development of hepatocellular carcinoma. Cancer stem cells (CSCs) induced by TS is an early event in the initiation of carcinogenesis. Tumor specific microenvironment including inflammatory factors is key mediator for maintaining the stemness of CSCs through various pathways such as p38 MAPK. However, the mechanisms of inflammatory factors in TS-induced acquisition of liver CSCs properties remain undefined. The aim of this study was to investigate the role of IL-33/p38 axis in long term TS-induced acquisition of hepatic CSCs properties in mouse liver tissues and human liver cells.Methods:BALB/c mice were exposed to TS for 12 weeks, along with or without 1 mg/kg SB203580 (p38 inhibitors) treatment. Histopathological analysis, alterations in the levels of IL-33, liver CSCs markers, EMT-like changes and p38 MAPK activation in liver tissues of mice were analyzed by immunohistochemical staining, immunofluorescence assay and Western blot analysis. Moreover, LO2 immortalized human liver cells were exposed to cigarette smoke extract (CSE) and the tumorsphere formation ability was determined. LO2 cells were further treated with IL-33 or CSE and the expression of phosphorylated p38, liver CSCs markers and EMT-related proteins was examined.Results:Long term TS exposure increased the levels of CSCs markers, induced epithelial-to mesenchymal transition (EMT) and inflammatory factor IL-33 expression. Moreover, we showed that p38 MAPK modulated TS-stimulated hepatic CSC-like properties, as evidenced by the findings that long term TS exposure activated p38, and that TS-induced stemness was abolished by p38 inhibition. In addition, data from in vitro model showed that similar to cigarette smoke extract (CSE), IL-33 treatment promoted the activation of p38, increased the levels of liver CSCs markers expression and EMT-like changes.Conclusions:Collectively, these data suggested that IL-33/p38 axis plays an important role in long term TS exposure-induced acquisition of hepatic CSC-like properties.
EMT; IL-33; Liver CSCs; Tobacco smoke; p38 MAPK.
