30774659
2019 Jan 10
Background and aims:Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the common tumor of the liver. Unfortunately, most HCC seem to be resistant to conventional chemotherapy and radiotherapy. The poor efficacy of antitumor agents is also due, at least in part, to the inefficient drug delivery and metabolism exerted by the steatotic/cirrhotic liver that hosts the tumor. Thus, novel approaches in chemotherapy may be needed to improve the survival rate in patients with HCC. Metformin (METF) has been found to lower HCC risk; however, the mechanisms by which METF performs its anticancer activity are not completely elucidated. Previous studies have showed METF action on growth inhibition in the liver in a dose/time-dependent manner and its antitumor role by targeting multiple pathways. We investigated molecular effects of METF in an in vitro human hepatoma model (HepG2), studying cell cycle regulators, tumorigenesis markers, and insulin-like growth factor (IGF) axis regulation.Materials and methods:HepG2 cells were treated with METF (400 μM) for 24, 48, and 72 hours. METF action on cell cycle progression and cellular pathways involved in metabolism regulation was evaluated by gene expression analysis, immunofluorescence, and Western blot assay.Results:By assessing HepG2 cell viability, METF significantly decreased growth cell capacity raising KLF6/p21 protein content. Moreover, METF ameliorated the cancer microenvironment reducing cellular lipid drop accumulation and promoting AMPK activity. The overexpression of IGF-II molecule and the IGF-I receptor that plays a main role in HCC progression was counteracted by METF. Furthermore, the protein content of HCC principal tumor markers, CK19 and OPN, linked to the metastasis process was significantly reduced by METF stimulus.Conclusion:Our data show that METF could suppress HepG2 proliferation, through induction of cell cycle arrest at the G0/G1 phase. In addition, METF effect on the cancer microenvironment and on the IGF axis leads to the development of new METF therapeutic use in HCC treatment.

