31605830
2020 Jan 1
Bromide and natural organic matter (NOM) are both precursors of halogenated disinfection byproducts (DBPs) in drinking water. During drinking water treatment process, chloride-form anion-exchange resin adsorption is expected to be capable of removing these DBP precursors and in the meantime releasing chloride ions. The released chloride as well as the chloride initially present in source water could be oxidized through electrolysis to generate free chlorine for disinfection. Based on the above assumptions, we developed a new disinfection approach using chloride-form anion-exchange resin adsorption followed by electrolysis to control halogenated DBPs. Parameter setup and optimization were performed for resin adsorption and electrolysis processes. Results showed that 93.7% of NOM and 90% of bromide could be removed at a resin dose of 20 mL per 2 L of simulated source water sample with a contact time of 1 h. Meanwhile, 49.5 mg/L of chloride was released from the resin to the water sample via anion-exchange, and the released chloride was further oxidized by electrolysis (Ti/RuO2-IrO2 anode and graphite cathode, current intensity of 0.4 A) to generate free chlorine (5 mg/L as Cl2) within 192 s. With this new approach, formation of total organic halogen, four trihalomethanes, and five haloacetic acids was reduced by 86.4%, 98.5%, and 93.2%, respectively, compared with chemical chlorination alone. Although the new approach might enhance the formation of some phenolic DBPs by decreasing bromide levels in source water, the overall cytotoxicity of the water samples treated with the new approach was significantly decreased by 68.8% according to a human hepatoma cell cytotoxicity assay. Notably, disinfection ability evaluation showed that the new approach achieved 3.36-log10 reductions of three seeded bacteria (Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and Staphylococcus aureus) in 19 s, suggesting that it was not only effective to E. coli but also effective to the chlorine-resistant bacteria (P. aeruginosa and S. aureus).
Anion-exchange resin adsorption; Cytotoxicity; Disinfection byproducts; Drinking water; Electrolysis disinfection.
