31634640
2020 Jan
Despite the implementation of various vaccination programs, hepatitis B virus (HBV) poses a considerable health problem in Saudi Arabia. Insight on HBV evolutionary history in the region is limited. We performed a comprehensive epidemiological and phylogenetic reconstruction based on a large cohort of HBV infected patients. Three hundred and nineteen HBV-infected patients with different clinical manifestations, including inactive and active chronic carriers and patients with cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), were enrolled in this study. The full-length large S gene was amplified and sequenced. Phylogenetic analysis was performed to determine the genotype and subgenotypes of the isolates. Phylogenetic tree analysis revealed that genotype D is the most dominant genotype among patients. Moreover, this analysis identified two strains with genotype E isolated from active carriers. Detailed phylogenetic analyses confirmed the presence of four HBV D subgenotypes, D1 (93%, n = 296), D2 (0.02%, n = 5), D3 (0.003%, n = 1), and D4 (0.003%, n = 1). In addition, six genotype D strains were not assigned to any existing HBV D subgenotype. The large S gene of eight strains showed signatures of genotype recombination between the genotypes D and A and between D and E. Several strains harbored medically important point mutations at the protein level. Along with the dominance of the HBV genotype D, isolation of the E genotype and several recombinant strains from patients with Saudi Arabian origin is an essential result for decisions involving therapeutic measures for patients. Development of vaccines and detection of diagnostic escape mutations at antigenic epitopes on the HBsAg will be valuable to public health authorities. Furthermore, the diversity at the nucleotide and amino acid levels and different proportions of dN/dS at the PreS1, PreS2, and HBsAg reveal the selective pressure trend from inactive status towards advanced liver diseases.
Genotype; Hepatitis B virus; S gene.
