31630534
2020 Jan 1
Progressive fibrosis, functional liver failure, and cancer are the central liver-related outcomes of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) but notoriously difficult to achieve in mouse models. We performed a direct, quantitative comparison of hepatic fibrosis progression in well-defined methionine- and choline-deficient (MCD) and choline-deficient, amino-acid defined (CDAA) diets with increasing fat content (10-60% by calories) in C57Bl/6J and BALB/cAnNCrl mice. In C57Bl/6J mice, MCD feeding resulted in moderate fibrosis at week 8 (up to twofold increase in total hepatic collagen content) and progressive weight loss irrespective of dietary fat. In contrast, CDAA-fed mice did not lose weight and developed progressive fibrosis starting from week 4. High dietary fat in the CDAA diet model induced the lipid metabolism genes for sterol regulatory element-binding protein and stearoyl-CoA desaturase-2 and increased ductular reaction and fibrosis in a dose-dependent manner. Longitudinal analysis of CDAA with 60% fat (HF-CDAA) feeding revealed pronounced ductular reaction and perisinusoidal bridging fibrosis, with a sevenfold increase of hepatic collagen at week 12, which showed limited spontaneous reversibility. At 24 wk, HF-CDAA mice developed signs of cirrhosis with pan-lobular "chicken wire" fibrosis, 10-fold hydroxyproline increase, regenerative nodules, portal hypertension and elevated serum bilirubin and ammonia levels; 80% of mice (8/10) developed multiple glypican-3- and/or glutamine synthetase-positive hepatocellular carcinomas (HCC). High-fat (60%) supplementation of MCD in C57Bl/6J or feeding the HF-CDAA diet fibrosis-prone BALB/cAnNCrl strain failed to result in increased fibrosis. In conclusion, HF-CDAA feeding in C57Bl/6J mice was identified as an optimal model of steatohepatitis with robust fibrosis and ductular proliferations that progress to cirrhosis and HCC within 24 wk. This robust model will aid the testing of interventions and drugs for severe NASH.NEW & NOTEWORTHY Via quantitative comparison of several dietary models, we report HF-CDAA feeding in C57Bl/6 mice as an excellent model recapitulating several key aspects of fibrotic NASH: 1) robust, poorly reversible liver fibrosis, 2) prominent ductular reaction, and 3) progression to cirrhosis, portal hypertension, and liver cancer within 24 wk. High fat dose-dependently activates SREBP2/SCD2 genes and drives liver fibrosis in e HF-CDAA model. These features qualify the model as a robust and practical tool to study mechanisms and novel treatments addressing severe human NASH.
HCC; HF-CDAA model; NAFLD; NASH; hepatocellular carcinoma.
