25071315
2014 Jul 28
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and pancreatic cancer remain difficult to treat, and despite the ongoing development of new treatments, the overall survival rate has only modestly improved over the past decade. Liver and pancreatic progenitors commonly develop from endoderm cells in the embryonic foregut. A previous study showed that HCC and pancreatic cancer cell lines variably express androgen receptor (AR), and these cancers and the surrounding tissues also express AR. AR is a ligand-dependent transcription factor that belongs to the nuclear receptor superfamily. Androgen response element is present in regulatory elements on the AR-responsive target genes, such as transforming growth factor beta-1 (TGF beta-1) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). It is well known that the activation of AR is associated with human carcinogenesis in prostate cancer as well as HCC and pancreatic cancer and that GRP78, TGF beta, and VEGF all play important roles in carcinogenesis and cancer development in these cancers. HCC is a male-dominant cancer irrespective of its etiology. Previous work has reported that vertebrae forkhead box A 1/2 are involved in estrogen receptors and/or AR signaling pathways, which may contribute to the gender differences observed with HCC. Our recent work also showed that AR has a critical role in pancreatic cancer development, despite pancreatic cancer not being a male dominant cancer. Aryl hydrocarbon (or dioxin) receptor is also involved in both HCC and pancreatic cancer through the formation of complex with AR. It is possible that AR might be involved in their carcinogenesis through major histocompatibility complex class I chain-related gene A/B. This review article describes AR and its role in HCC and pancreatic cancer and suggests that more specific AR signaling-inhibitors may be useful in the treatment of these "difficult to treat" cancers.
Androgen receptor; Gender difference; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Male-dominant; Pancreas.
