23880002
2013 Mar
Objective:To analyze the clinicopathological features and prognostic factors of breast cancer patients with inguinal lymph node metastases.Methods:Seventeen breast cancer patients with inguinal lymph node metastases were treated from January 1999 to December 2010 in our cancer center. All of the patients had a history of breast cancer without other primary cancer. Their clinicopathological characteristics and prognostic factors were surveyed.Results:The frequency of breast cancer cases with inguinal lymph node metastaseis consisted of 0.11% of the total number of breast cancer patients in the same period. Two patients (11.8%) had inguinal lymph node metastasis only, and multi-site metastases were observed in the remaining 15 (88.2%) patients. The number of ER- and/or PR-positive and negative were 10 (58.8%) and 7 (41.2%) cases, respectively, and among the 13 cases who underwent HER-2 test, the number of HER-2-positive was 4 (30.8%). For the 16 patients who underwent surgery, 9 patients were detected with metastatic axillary lymph nodes equal or greater than 4. All of the 17 patients were treated with chemotherapy.The median follow-up time was 156 months. The 5-year overall survival rate was 49.9%. Univariate analysis revealed that metastatic axillary lymph nodes ≥ 4, ER- and(or) PR-negative, adjuvant chemotherapy ≤ 6 cycles, disease stage as III/IV at diagnosis and the period from diagnosis of breast cancer to the occurrence of inguinal lymph node metastasis ≤ 36 months were predictors of shorter PFS (P < 0.05). Metastatic axillary lymph nodes ≥ 4, ER- and(or) PR-negative, adjuvant chemotherapy ≤ 6 cycles, primary recurrence as multiple distant metastases, the period from diagnosis of breast cancer to the occurrence of inguinal lymph nodes metastasis ≤ 36 months and pleural effusion were predictors of shorter OS (P < 0.05). Multivariate analysis revealed that the period from diagnosis of breast cancer to the occurrence of inguinal lymph node metastasis was an independent prognostic factor concerning PFS (P < 0.05).Conclusions:The prognostic factors of breast cancer patients with inguinal lymph node metastases include the number of metastatic axillary lymph nodes, ER and(or) PR status, the cycles of adjuvant chemotherapy, type of primary recurrence, the period from diagnosis of breast cancer to the occurrence of inguinal lymph node metastasis and pleural effusion. Regular and complete physical examination after surgery as well as prompt intensive treatment for high-risk patients may have positive significance in the treatment of such type of patients. However, a type of more reasonable and individualized treatment is warranted in future studies.

