31483925
2020 Feb
Sorafenib, a multi-kinase inhibitor, is recommended as a new standard therapy for advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC); however, it also exhibits severe cardiotoxicity and the toxicity mechanisms are not completely elucidated. Recent studies suggested that sorafenib-enhanced ROS may partially contribute to its anti-HCC effect, which implies that redox mechanism might also be involved in sorafenib's cardiotoxicity. In this study, we aimed to investigate if sorafenib is able to induce oxidative stress and how this may impair cellular functions in cardiomyocyte, ultimately accounting for its cardiotoxicity. Our results showed that in isolated rat hearts, sorafenib caused ventricular arrhythmias and left ventricular dysfunction, which were alleviated by the antioxidant N-(2-mercaptopropionyl)-glycine (MPG). In isolated ventricular myocytes, sorafenib increased diastolic intracellular Ca2+ levels, decreased Ca transients and the occurrence of Ca2+ waves. These changes were eliminated by MPG, CaMKII inhibitor KN-93 and the mitochondrial permeability transition pore (mPTP)inhibitor cyclosporin A (CsA). Moreover, the levels of oxidized and phosphorylated CaMKII were significantly increased. Sorafenib elevated ROS levels, which was reversed by CsA and MPG; additionally, sorafenib reduced the activity of mitochondrial complex III and augmented mitochondrial ROS production. In vivo rats treated with sorafenib exhibited a reduction of antioxidant defence and abnormal histological alterations including hypertrophy, increased fibrosis, disordered myofibrils and damaged mitochondria, which were protected by MPG. We conclude that sorafenib induces the disruption of Ca2+ homoeostasis and cardiac injury via enhanced ROS potentially through inhibiting mitochondrial complex III, the opening of mPTP and overactivating CaMKII. These results provide a potential strategy for preventing or reducing cardiotoxicity of sorafenib.
Ca2+ abnormality; N-(2-mercaptopropionyl)-glycine; ROS; cardiotoxicity; mPTP; sorafenib.
