31614325
2020 Feb
Background:Fluid therapy influences glycocalyx shedding; however, the effect of this intervention on glycocalyx shedding in patients with glioma remains unclear. In this study, we have investigated glycocalyx shedding and cerebral metabolism during colloid loading in patients with and without glioma.Methods:Forty patients undergoing general anesthesia were assigned to the glioma brain group (n = 20) or the normal brain group (n = 20); patients in the normal brain group were undergoing partial hepatectomy to treat liver cancer. All patients were subjected to 15 mL/kg hydroxyethyl starch (HES) loading after the induction of anesthesia. Glycocalyx shedding, reflected by syndecan-1 and heparan sulfate levels at the jugular venous bulb, was measured in both groups. We also evaluated cerebral metabolism parameters, including jugular venous oxygen saturation (SjvO2), arterial-jugular venous differences in oxygen (CajvO2), glucose (A-JvGD), lactate (A-JvLD), the cerebral extraction ratio for oxygen (CERO2), and the oxygen-glucose index.Results:Our results showed that patients in the glioma brain group had lower preoperative basal syndecan-1 shedding in plasma than patients in the normal brain group. The hematocrit (Hct)-corrected syndecan-1 level was significantly increased after 15 mL/kg HES fluid administration (19.78 ± 3.83 ng/mL) compared with the Hct-correct baseline syndecan-1 level (15.67 ± 2.35 ng/mL) in patients in the glioma brain group. Similarly, for patients in the normal brain group, Hct-corrected syndecan-1 level was significantly increased after HES loading (34.71 ± 12.83 ng/mL) compared with the baseline syndecan-1 level (26.07 ± 12.52 ng/mL). However, there were no intergroup or intragroup differences in Hct-corrected heparan sulfate levels at any time point. Our study also showed that the SjvO2 was lower and CajvO2 and CERO2 were higher in the glioma brain group at 30 min after HES loading. Intragroup analysis showed that CERO2 and CajvO2 increased after general anesthesia compared with the baseline values in the glioma brain group. In contrast, cerebral metabolism in the normal brain group was unchanged during perioperative period. There were no significant differences in oxygen-glucose index between the two groups throughout the study period.Conclusions:Preoperative 15 mL/kg HES loading had similar effects on systemic glycocalyx shedding in both the glioma brain and normal brain groups, although patients in the normal brain group had higher levels of plasma syndecan-1. Furthermore, the intraoperative anesthetic management may substantially influence cerebral metabolism in patients with glioma.
Cerebral metabolism; Fluid therapy; Glycocalyx; Heparan sulfate; Syndecan-1.
