31653969
2020 Feb
Changes in transient receptor potential (TRP) Ca2+ permeable channels are associated with development and progression of different types of cancer. Herein, we report data relative to the expression and function of TRP vanilloid 2 (TRPV2) channels in cancer. Overexpression of TRPV2 is observed in high-grade urothelial cancers and treatment with the TRPV2 agonist cannabidiol induces apoptosis. In prostate cancer, TRPV2 promotes migration and invasion, and TRPV2 overexpression characterizes the castration-resistant phenotype. In breast cancer cells, inhibition of TRPV2 by tranilast reduces the insulin-like growth factor-1 stimulated proliferation. TRPV2 overexpression in triple-negative breast cancer cells is associated with high recurrence-free survival. Increased TRPV2 overexpression is present in patients with esophageal squamous cell carcinoma associated with advanced disease, lymph node metastasis, and poor prognosis. Increased TRPV2 transcripts have been found both in benign hepatoma and in hepatocarcinomas, where TRPV2 expression is associated with portal vein invasion and reduction of cancer stem cell expression. TRPV2 expression and function has been also evaluated in gliomagenesis. This receptor negatively controls survival, proliferation, and resistance to CD95- or BCNU-induced apoptosis. In glioblastoma stem cells, TRPV2 activation promotes differentiation and inhibits the proliferation in vitro and in vivo. In glioblastoma, the TRPV2 is part of an interactome-based signature complex, which is negatively associated with survival, and it is expressed in high risk of recurrence and temozolomide-resistant patients. Finally, also in hematological malignancies, such as myeloma or acute myeloid leukemia, TRPV2 might represent a target for novel therapeutic approaches. Overall, these findings demonstrate that TRPV2 exhibits an oncogenic activity in different types of cancers, controlling survival, proliferation, migration, angiogenesis, and invasion signaling pathways. Thus, it prompts the pharmacological use of TRPV2 targeting in the control of cancer progression.

