31926243
2020 Feb 15
Aims:1,8-Cineole is a plant-derived monoterpene and a major constituent of Eucalyptus essential oil. Previously, we demonstrated that 1,8-cineole inhibited hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) HepG2 cell growth. However, the underlying mechanisms remain unknown. Here, we evaluated the mechanisms of action of 1,8-cineole and the potential benefits of its combination with anticancer compounds harboring "anti-senescence" properties in HepG2 cells.Main methods:Cell viability was determined by the MTT assay. Cell cycle was assessed through flow cytometry (FC) and western blot (WB). Senescence was determined by the SA-β-galactosidase assay, and apoptosis by caspase-3 activity, WB, and TUNEL. MAPKs (ERK, JNK, and p38), AMPK, and Akt/mTOR were analyzed by WB. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) and mitochondrial membrane potential (ΔΨm) were evaluated by FC and fluorescence microscopy.Key findings:1,8-Cineole inhibited cell proliferation by promoting G0/G1 arrest. While 1,8-cineole was unable to trigger apoptosis, it induced cellular senescence. 1,8-Cineole promoted ROS production, ΔΨm depolarization, AMPK, ERK, and p38 activation and mTOR inhibition. Antioxidants, like N-acetyl-L-cysteine and vitamins, prevented HepG2 cell growth inhibition and senescence induced by 1,8-cineole. Pre-incubation with 1,8-cineole sensitized HepG2 cells to the anti-senescence compounds, quercetin, simvastatin, U0126, and SB202190. Combinations of 1,8-cineole and each compound synergistically inhibited cell viability, and combined treatment with 1,8-cineole and simvastatin induced apoptosis.Significance:1,8-Cineole induces G0/G1 arrest and senescence in HepG2 cells through oxidative stress and MAPK, AMPK, and Akt/mTOR pathways, and sensitizes cells to anti-senescence drugs, suggesting that 1,8-cineole has potential as an antineoplastic and adjuvant compound in combination with anti-senescence drugs in HCC therapy.
1,8-Cineole; AMPK; Akt/mTOR; Cell cycle arrest; Hepatocellular carcinoma cells; MAPKs; Oxidative stress; Senescence.
