32017145
2020 Feb 4.</span
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is among the leading causes of worldwide cancer-related morbidity and mortality. Poor prognosis of HCC is mainly attributed to tumor presentation at an advanced stage when there is no effective treatment to achieve the long term survival of patients. Currently available tests such as alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) have limited accuracy as a diagnostic or prognostic biomarker for HCC. Liver biopsy provides tissue that can reveal tumor biology but it is not used routinely due to its invasiveness and risk of tumor seeding, especially in early stage patients. Liver biopsy is also limited in revealing comprehensive tumor biology due to intra-tumoral heterogeneity. There is a clear need for new biomarkers to improve HCC detection, prognostication, prediction of treatment response, and disease monitoring with treatment. Liquid biopsy could be an effective method of early detection and management of HCC. Circulating tumor cells (CTCs) are cancer cells in circulation derived from the original tumor or metastatic foci, and their measurement by liquid biopsy represents a great potential to facilitate the implementation of precision medicine in patients with HCC. CTCs can be detected by a simple peripheral blood draw and potentially show global features of tumor characteristics. Various CTC detection platforms utilizing immunoaffinity and biophysical properties have been developed in order to identify and capture CTCs with high efficiency. Quantitative abundance of CTCs, as well as biological characteristics and genomic heterogeneity among the CTCs, can predict disease prognosis and response to therapy in patients with HCC. This review article will discuss the currently available technologies for CTC detection and isolation, their utility in the clinical management of HCC patients, their limitations, and future directions of research.
Biomarkers; CTC Heterogeneity; Circulating tumor cells; Epithelial-to-Mesenchymal Transition; Hepatocellular Carcinoma; Immunoaffinity.
