32019557
2020 Feb 4
Background:This prospective randomized controlled study was designed to evaluate the effect of fluid restriction alone versus fluid restriction + low central venous pressure (CVP) on hepatic surgical field bleeding, intraoperative blood loss, and the serum lactate concentration in patients undergoing partial hepatectomy.Methods:One hundred forty patients undergoing partial hepatectomy with intraoperative portal triad clamping were randomized into a fluid restriction group (Group F) or fluid restriction + low CVP group (Group L). Both groups received limited fluid infusion before the liver lesions were removed. Ephedrine was administered if the systolic blood pressure (SBP) decreased to <90 mmHg for 1 min. When the urine output was <20 ml/h or the SBP was <90 mmHg for 1 min more than three times, an additional 200 ml of crystalline solution was quickly infused within 10 min. In addition to fluid restriction, patients in Group L received continuous nitroglycerin and esmolol infusion to maintain a low CVP. The duration of portal triad clamping, frequency of additional fluid infusion, frequency of ephedrine administration, intraoperative blood loss, extent of liver resection, and bleeding score of the hepatic surgical field were recorded. Arterial blood gas analysis was performed before anesthesia (T1), after liver dissection and immediately before liver resection (T2), 10 min after removal of the liver lesion (T3), and before the patient was discharged from the postanesthesia care unit (T4).Results:Being in the fluid restriction Group (Group F) (odds ratio = 5.04) and cirrhosis (odds ratio = 3.28) were risk factors for hepatic surgical field bleeding. Factors contributing to intraoperative blood loss were the operation time, duration of portal triad clamping, and extent of resection. No significant between-group difference was observed for blood loss or blood transfusion. The serum lactate concentration peaked at T3 in both groups.Conclusions:Maintaining a lower CVP during hepatectomy provides an optimal surgical field but has no significant effect on intraoperative blood loss. Moreover, lower CVP does not increase the serum lactate concentration.Trial registration:"A comparative study of the effect fluid restriction and low CVP pressure on the oozing of blood in liver wounds and blood lactate in patients undergoing partial hepatectomy" was prospectively registered as a trial (registration number: ChiCTR-INR-17014172, date of registration: 27 December 2017).
Blood loss; Fluid restriction; Hepatic surgical field bleeding; Partial hepatectomy; Portal triad clamping; Serum lactate.
