32024555
2020 Feb 5
Background:Aberrant AKT activation contributes to cancer stem cell (CSC) traits in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). We previously reported that CD73 activated AKT signaling via the Rap1/P110β cascade. Here, we further explored the roles of CD73 in regulating CSC characteristics of HCC.Methods:CD73 expression modulations were conducted by lentiviral transfections. CD73+ fractions were purified by magnetic-based sorting, and fluorescent-activated cell sorting was used to assess differentiation potentials. A sphere-forming assay was performed to evaluate CSC traits in vitro, subcutaneous NOD/SCID mice models were generated to assess in vivo CSC features, and colony formation assays assessed drug resistance capacities. Stemness-associated gene expression was also determined, and underlying mechanisms were investigated by evaluating immunoprecipitation and ubiquitylation.Results:We found CD73 expression was positively associated with sphere-forming capacity and elevated in HCC spheroids. CD73 knockdown hindered sphere formation, Lenvatinib resistance, and stemness-associated gene expression, while CD73 overexpression achieved the opposite effects. Moreover, CD73 knockdown significantly inhibited the in vivo tumor propagation capacity. Notably, we found that CD73+ cells exhibited substantially stronger CSC traits than their CD73- counterparts. Mechanistically, CD73 exerted its pro-stemness activity through dual AKT-dependent mechanisms: activating SOX9 transcription via c-Myc, and preventing SOX9 degradation by inhibiting glycogen synthase kinase 3β. Clinically, the combined analysis of CD73 and SOX9 achieved a more accurate prediction of prognosis.Conclusions:Collectively, CD73 plays a critical role in sustaining CSCs traits by upregulating SOX9 expression and enhancing its protein stability. Targeting CD73 might be a promising strategy to eradicate CSCs and reverse Lenvatinib resistance in HCC.
AKT signaling; CD73; Cancer stem cells; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Lenvatinib resistance.
