32123532
2020 Feb 24
Background:Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is still the most common cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide and accumulating studies report that HCC is frequently linked to chronic inflammation. G-protein alpha-subunit (GNAS)-activating mutations have recently been reported to form a rare subgroup of inflammatory liver tumors. In this study, we investigated the roles of GNAS in inflammation-related HCC progression and its underlying mechanism.Methods:Lipopolysaccharides (LPS) and diethylnitrosamine were employed to stimulate HCC cells to an induced inflammatory response. qRT-PCR, immunohistochemistry and immunoblotting were performed to detect the expression of GNAS in HCC tissues and cell lines. Expression levels of proinflammatory cytokines were detected by qRT-PCR and ELISA. N6-methyladenosine (m6A) methylation of GNAS mRNA was detected by RNA-binding protein immunoprecipitation (RIP). Transcription factors activation profiling plate array was performed to investigate the underlying mechanism in GNAS promoting interleukin-6 (IL-6) expression in HCC cells. HCC cell invasion was determined by transwell assay in vitro, and tumorigenesis was assessed with a subcutaneous xenograft mouse model of HCC.Results:We found that LPS stimulation promotes GNAS expression in HCC cells through increasing m6A methylation of GNAS mRNA. The high expression level of GNAS promotes LPS-induced HCC cell growth and invasion by interacting with signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3). Furthermore, GNAS knockdown inhibits LPS induced-IL-6 expression in HCC cells by suppressing STAT3 activation. Moreover, we found that GNAS promotes LPS-induced STAT3 activation in HCC cells through inhibiting long non-coding RNA TPTEP1 interacting with STAT3. In addition, GNAS expression promotes HCC development in mice and is related to poor survival.Conclusions:Our findings for the first time indicate a tumor-promoting role of GNAS in inflammation-related HCC progression and provide a novel potential target for HCC therapy.
G-protein alpha-subunit; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Interleukin-6; Lipopolysaccharides; Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3.
