32121322
2020 Feb 29
Autophagy is a conserved biological phenomenon that maintains cellular homeostasis through the clearing of damaged cellular components under cellular stress and offers the cell building blocks for cellular survival. Aberrations in autophagy subsidize to various human pathologies, such as dementia, cardiovascular diseases, leishmaniosis, influenza, hepatic diseases, and cancer, including hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). HCC is the fifth common mortal type of liver cancer globally, with an inhomogeneous topographical distribution and highest incidence tripled in men than women. Existing treatment procedures with liver cancer patients result in variable success rates and poor prognosis due to their drug resistance and toxicity. One of the pathophysiological mechanisms that are targeted during the development of anti-liver cancer drugs is autophagy. Generally, overactivated autophagy may lead to a non-apoptotic form of programmed cell death (PCD) or autophagic cell death or type II PCD. Emerging evidence suggests that manipulation of autophagy could induce type II PCD in cancer cells, acting as a potential tumor suppressor. Hence, altering autophagic signaling offers new hope for the development of novel drugs for the therapy of resistant cancer cells. Natural polyphenolic compounds, including flavonoids and non-flavonoids, execute their anticarcinogenic mechanism through upregulating tumor suppressors and autophagy by modulating canonical (Beclin-1-dependent) and non-canonical (Beclin-1-independent) signaling pathways. Additionally, there is evidence signifying that plant polyphenols target angiogenesis and metastasis in HCC via interference with multiple intracellular signals and decrease the risk against HCC. The current review offers a comprehensive understanding of how natural polyphenolic compounds exhibit their anti-HCC effects through regulation of autophagy, the non-apoptotic mode of cell death.
anticancer effects; autophagy; hepatocellular carcinoma; polyphenols; therapy.
