32184655
2020 Feb 28
Background:Deubiquitinase OTU domain containing 4 (OTUD4) is initially identified as a K48-specific deubiquitinase and plays an important role in DNA damage repair signaling transduction. However, the expression level, prognostic role, biological function and mechanism of OTUD4 in multiple human cancers are unclear.Methods:GEPIA online (http://gepia.cancer-pku.cn/; The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database) was used to analyze the mRNA expression of OTUD4 in multiple human cancers. Kaplan-Meier plotter (KM plotter) database and TCGA database were used to evaluate the prognostic value of OTUD4 expression in multiple human cancers. MTT, Transwell and 3D culture assays were used to detect the role of OTUD4 in breast, liver and lung cancer cells. The correlation between OTUD4 and apoptosis signaling pathway and AKT signaling pathway was analyzed by Gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA).Results:OTUD4 mRNA expression is significantly downregulated in multiple human cancer tissues. Survival analysis establishes that the downregulation of OTUD4 predicts poor prognosis in many solid tumors, including breast invasive carcinoma (BRCA), esophageal carcinoma (ESCA), liver hepatocellular carcinoma (LIHC), lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD), and ovarian serous cystadenocarcinoma (OV). Furthermore, overexpression of OTUD4 could inhibit tumor cell proliferation, migration and invasion of breast, liver and lung cancer cells through inhibiting the AKT signaling pathway.Conclusion:This study found that OTUD4 may be a potential predictive factor for several human cancers and a tumor suppressor for breast, liver and lung cancer. The overexpression of OTUD4 restrained proliferation, migration and invasion of human breast, liver and lung cancer cells through promoting cancer cells apoptosis and inhibiting AKT signaling pathway. Notably, our results indicated that OTUD4 could be a useful biomarker for the prognosis of human cancers and a potential molecular target for diagnosis and treatment of breast, liver and lung cancer.
OTUD4; invasion; migration; prognosis biomarker; proliferation.
