32194854
2020 Feb 10
Simultaneously targeted treatment of tumor cells and their surrounding growth-supporting immune cells is a promising strategy to reshape immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (TME) and potentiate host innate and adaptive antitumor immune responses. Methods: We designed a series of melittin-(RADA)n hybrid peptide sequences with varying self-assembling motifs of RADA and screened out a melittin-(RADA)6 peptide that has an optimal gel-formation ability and in vitro antitumor activity. Results: The formed melittin-(RADA)6 (MR52) hydrogel scaffold could be loaded with a specific Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CAMKII) inhibitor, KN93, originally found to have both direct tumoricidal activity and macrophages-reprogramming ability, for potent immunotherapy against melanoma and hepatoma ascites in mice models. Our MR52 hydrogel has an interweaving nanofiber-like structure, possesses direct antitumor and controlled drug release properties, and promotes the enhanced intracellular uptake of loaded cargo. Compared to free KN93, the MR52-KN93 hydrogel (MRK) improved the killing effects and levels of immunogenic cell death (ICD) on tumor cells significantly. Due to the dual role of KN93, the injection of the MRK hydrogel retarded the growth of subcutaneous melanoma tumors dramatically and resulted in a high number of mature dendritic cells of draining lymph nodes, significantly enhancing the portion of cytotoxic T cells and reduced number of M2-like tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) in tumors. Using a mouse model of malignant ascites (MAs), where traditional therapy was ineffective, we demonstrated that the MRK hydrogel treatment offered a significantly prolonged survival compared to controls. Following treatment with the MRK hydrogel, macrophages had elevated programmed cell death protein ligand-1 (PD-L1) expression, promising follow-up combined anti-PD-1 therapy that confers a cure rate of approximately 30% against MAs in mice models. Conclusion: Thus, the MRK hydrogel may serve as a prospective platform for antitumor applications.
CAMKII; Hydrogel; anti-PD-1; cancer immunotherapy; tumor-associated macrophages.
