32623699
2020 Dec
Purpose:Hepatitis B virus (HBV)-associated hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), which has a male predominance, lacks effective therapeutic options. Previously, the cardiac glycoside analogue bufalin has been found to inhibit HBV infection and HCC development. As yet, however, its molecular role in HBV-associated HCC has remained obscure.Methods:Colony formation and soft agar assays, xenograft and orthotopic mouse models and HBV X protein (HBx) transgenic mice with exposure to diethylnitrosamine were used to evaluate the effect of bufalin on HBV-associated HCC growth and tumorigenicity. HBx-induced oncogenic signaling regulated by bufalin was assessed using PCR array, chromatin immunoprecipitation, site-directed mutagenesis, luciferase reporter, transcription and protein expression assays. Synergistic HCC therapeutic effects were examined using combinations of bufalin and sorafenib.Results:We found that bufalin exerted a more profound effect on inhibiting the proliferation of HBV-associated HCC cells than of non HBV-associated HCC cells. Bufalin significantly inhibited HBx-induced malignant transfromation in vitro and tumorigenicity in vivo. Androgen receptor (AR) signaling was found to be a target of bufalin resistance to HBV-associated hepatocarcinogenesis. We also found that bufalin induced both AR dephosphorylation and cell cycle-related kinase (CCRK) degradation to inhibit β-catenin/TCF signaling, which subsequently led to cell cycle arrest via cyclin D1 down-regulation and p21 up-regulation, resulting in HCC regression. Furthermore, we found that bufalin reduced > 60% diethylnitrosamine-induced hepatocarcinogenesis in HBx transgenic mice, and improved the sensitivity of refractory HBV-associated HCC cells to sorafenib treatment.Conclusion:Our results indicate that bufalin acts as a potential anti-HCC therapeutic candidate to block HBx-induced AR/CCRK/β-catenin signaling by targeting AR and CCRK, which may provide a novel strategy for the treatment of HBV-associated HCC.
Androgen receptor; Bufalin; Cell cycle-related kinase; HBV X protein; HBV-associated HCC; HBx transgenic mice.
