32763415
2020 Dec 5
Ethnopharmacological relevance:Elephantopus mollis Kunth (EM), which belongs to Asteraceae family, has been used as a folk medicine with diverse therapeutic properties. Previous studies reported that crude extracts of this plant could inhibit several cancer cell lines, including breast carcinoma MCF-7, liver carcinoma HepG2, colorectal carcinoma DLD-1, lung carcinoma NCI-H23, etc. AIM: In this study, the anticancer activity and associated molecular mechanism of EM which is distributed in Vietnam were investigated.Materials and methods:The cytotoxicity of various EM extracts was evaluated on different cell lines by MTT assay. In addition, the effects of EM extracts on cell growth, cell morphology, nuclear morphology, caspase-3 activation, and mRNA expression levels of apoptosis-related genes were also examined.Results:Our results demonstrated that ethyl acetate extract (EM-EA) caused proliferative inhibition and apoptotic induction towards A549 lung cancer cells (IC50 = 18.66 μg/ml, SI = 5.8) and HL60 leukemia cells (IC50 = 7.45 μg/ml, SI = 14.5) while petroleum ether extract (EM-PE) showed high toxicity to HL60 cell line (IC50 = 11.14 μg/ml, SI = 6.7). Notably, Raji lymphoma cells were also affected by these extracts (IC50 < 20 μg/ml, SI > 4), which has not been reported yet. Furthermore, mechanisms of EM extracts were elucidated. The significant downregulation of PCNA mRNA level induced by EM-EA/PE extracts contributed to the cell-growth restraint. EM-EA extract might activate apoptosis in A549 cells through both extrinsic and intrinsic signaling pathways by causing a 1.55-fold increase in BID, 3.65-fold increase in BAK and 3.11-fold decrease in BCL-2 expression level. Meanwhile, with EM-EA-extract treatment, HL60 cells might encounter P53-dependent apoptotic deaths.Conclusions:The combination of antiproliferation and apoptosis activation contributed to the high efficacy of EM extracts. These findings not only proved the anticancer potential of EM but also provided further insights into the mechanisms of EM extracts.
Apoptosis; Cytotoxicity; Elephantopus mollis Kunth; Ethyl acetate extract; Gene expression; Petroleum ether extract.
