32797385
2020 Dec
Background:Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most common and devastating malignancies. Oxaliplatin, a platinum-based chemotherapeutic agent, is approved for the treatment of several malignancies, including HCC. However, its role in HCC is not well established. This study was designed to investigate the potential of oxaliplatin as an immunogenic cell death (ICD) inducer and to explore its regulatory effects on the response of HCC to immune checkpoint blockade therapy.Methods:Murine and human HCC cells were treated with oxaliplatin, followed by evaluation of the expression of ICD-related biomarkers. Murine HCC cells (H22) were subcutaneously inoculated into mice to establish a syngeneic tumor graft model, after which tumor sizes and in vivo immune cell activation were evaluated. To assess putative synergistic effects of oxaliplatin with anti-PD-1 antibodies on H22 tumors, tumor parameters and secreted cytokines were quantified.Results:ICD-related biomarkers were found to be enhanced after treatment of human and murine HCC cells with oxaliplatin. Additionally, we found that the number of mature dendritic cells (DCs) was increased after immature DCs were cocultured with oxaliplatin-treated H22 cells. The numbers of CD8+ T cells and mature DCs were found to be increased in vivo whereas, in contrast, the number of Treg cells was decreased. The tumor sizes were smaller in the oxaliplatin group than in the control group. In the syngeneic tumor graft model, we found that combination therapy with oxaliplatin and anti-PD-1 antibodies could achieve better outcomes than monotherapy, as indicated by (i) inhibition of tumor growth and TGF-β secretion and (ii) augmentation of inflammatory cytokine secretion.Conclusions:Our data indicate that oxaliplatin can be used as an inducer of ICD and as a modulator of the tumor immune microenvironment. Combination therapies composed of oxaliplatin and immune checkpoint inhibitors may open up novel avenues for the treatment of HCC.
Hepatocellular carcinoma; Immunogenic cell death; Oxaliplatin; Programmed death protein 1.
