33093905
2020 Dec
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is one of the most malignant cancers worldwide. However, the mechanisms of initiation and development of CRC are still largely unclear. The present study aimed to investigate the biological function and prognosis of glutamate receptor ionotropic, kainate 1 (GRIK1) in CRC. GRIK1 expression levels were analyzed in tissue microarrays containing 80 primary CRC samples using immunohistochemistry (IHC). The association between GRIK1 expression levels, clinicopathological factors and the prognosis was also investigated using Spearman's correlation analysis and Kaplan-Meier analysis, respectively. After genetic knockdown or overexpression of GRIK1, invasion/migration assays, proliferation assay, soft agar/colony formation assays, western blotting, reverse transcription-quantitative PCR and tumor xenograft models were used to investigate the function of GRIK1 both in vitro in two CRC cell lines, HCT116 and SW620, and in vivo. The results revealed that the expression levels of GRIK1 were significantly downregulated in CRC samples. Furthermore, IHC analysis indicated that the downregulated expression levels of GRIK1 were significantly associated with lymph node status and tumor size. In addition, patients with CRC with low GRIK1 expression levels demonstrated a consistently poor overall survival. The overexpression of GRIK1 inhibited the proliferation, colony formation, migration, invasion and epithelial-mesenchymal transition of HCT116 cells in vitro. In contrast, the genetic knockdown of GRIK1 promoted the proliferative, colony forming, migratory and invasive abilities of SW620 cells in vitro. Moreover, the overexpression of GRIK1 inhibited tumor growth, and liver and lung metastasis of CRC in vivo. In conclusion, the findings of the present study suggested that GRIK1 may serve as a tumor suppressor in CRC, and upregulated expression levels of GRIK1 may predict an improved prognosis for patients with CRC.
CRC; GRIK1; metastasis; prognosis; tumor suppressor.
