33167051
2020 Dec
Background:Healthcare services were faced with unprecedented challenges due to the COVID-19 pandemic and its associated lockdown regulations. In order to analyse the influence of the pandemic on the healthcare of patients with chronic hepatitis C in Germany, we carried out a structured questionnaire among all centres participating in the German Hepatitis C-Registry (DHC-R).Methods:320 centres of the DHC-R were invited to participate in an online survey. Of these, 74 centres had included ≥ 5 patients in the last 12 months.Findings:A fully answered questionnaire was sent back by 64 centres. Due to the lockdown regulations, 11 % of the centres had stopped their regular consultation between March and May 2020; 58 % had reduced the consultations and 32 % did not change the consultations. More than 50 % of the appointment cancellations were done by the patients. 52 % of the centres offered a new or additional telephone consultation and 17 % offered a new video consultation. Between March and May 2020, the number of patients newly treated with antivirals was markedly lower when compared with the same period in 2019. All centres had returned to their usual consultation procedures in July 2020. Almost 80 % indicated that there were no significant limitations in patient's healthcare. However, 22 % of the centres stated that liver decompensation was diagnosed late and 9.4 % stated that diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma was delayed. An adequate amount of personal protective equipment (including disinfectants) was available in 56 % of the centres. Official information by public healthcare authorities was considered sufficient by 63 % of the centres.Summary:Diagnosis, therapy and monitoring of patients with chronic hepatitis C were impaired during the COVID-19 pandemic. Nevertheless, the majority of the centres did not see healthcare problems for these patients in the medium and long term. However, the fact that the diagnosis of liver decompensations with potential lethal consequences was delayed in a considerable number of patients causes major concern.

