33256542
2020 Dec
Hepatoblastomas exhibit the lowest mutational burden among pediatric tumors. We previously showed that epigenetic disruption is crucial for hepatoblastoma carcinogenesis. Our data revealed hypermethylation of nicotinamide N-methyltransferase, a highly expressed gene in adipocytes and hepatocytes. The expression pattern and the role of nicotinamide N-methyltransferase in pediatric liver tumors have not yet been explored, and this study aimed to evaluate the effect of nicotinamide N-methyltransferase hypermethylation in hepatoblastomas. We evaluated 45 hepatoblastomas and 26 non-tumoral liver samples. We examined in hepatoblastomas if the observed nicotinamide N-methyltransferase promoter hypermethylation could lead to dysregulation of expression by measuring mRNA and protein levels by real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction, immunohistochemistry, and Western blot assays. The potential impact of nicotinamide N-methyltransferase changes was evaluated on the metabolic profile by high-resolution magic angle spinning nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. Significant nicotinamide N-methyltransferase downregulation was revealed in hepatoblastomas, with two orders of magnitude lower nicotinamide N-methyltransferase expression in tumor samples and hepatoblastoma cell lines than in hepatocellular carcinoma cell lines. A specific TSS1500 CpG site (cg02094283) of nicotinamide N-methyltransferase was hypermethylated in tumors, with an inverse correlation between its methylation level and nicotinamide N-methyltransferase expression. A marked global reduction of the nicotinamide N-methyltransferase protein was validated in tumors, with strong correlation between gene and protein expression. Of note, higher nicotinamide N-methyltransferase expression was statistically associated with late hepatoblastoma diagnosis, a known clinical variable of worse prognosis. In addition, untargeted metabolomics analysis detected aberrant lipid metabolism in hepatoblastomas. Data presented here showed the first evidence that nicotinamide N-methyltransferase reduction occurs in hepatoblastomas, providing further support that the nicotinamide N-methyltransferase downregulation is a wide phenomenon in liver cancer. Furthermore, this study unraveled the role of DNA methylation in the regulation of nicotinamide N-methyltransferase expression in hepatoblastomas, in addition to evaluate the potential effect of nicotinamide N-methyltransferase reduction in the metabolism of these tumors. These preliminary findings also suggested that nicotinamide N-methyltransferase level may be a potential prognostic biomarker for hepatoblastoma.
Hepatoblastoma; epigenetics; hypermethylation; low lipids; metabolomics; nicotinamide N-methyltransferase.
