33285755
2020 Dec 4
Rationale:Understanding the association between Henoch-Schönlein purpura (HSP) and malignancy is essential for early diagnosis and treatment of the potential lethal disease. To the best of our knowledge, there has been only one published case of HSP coexisting with oesophageal cancer. Here, we report another patient diagnosed with HSP and oesophageal squamous carcinoma simultaneously.Patient concerns:A 60-year-old Chinese male was referred to our hospital because of intermittent abdominal pain, abdominal distension, melena, lower extremities purpura. Positive laboratory values included pancytopenia, microscopic hematuria, nephrotic proteinuria, hematochezia, hypoalbuminemia, hyperlipidaemia, hypocomplementemia, and increased levels of hepatobiliary enzymes and immunoglobulin (Ig) A. Gastrocolonoscopy showed multiple erosion lesion on descending duodenum, terminal ileum, and ileal flap. Biopsy of these lesions suggested non-specific inflammation.Diagnoses:HSP (IIIb type) was diagnosed based on renal pathology examination in accordance with the International Study of Kidney Disease in Children (ISKDC) classification. Liver biopsy confirmed the diagnosis of nodular cirrhosis (Ishak 5). Gastroscopy unintentionally revealed three oesophagus lesions. Pathology study suggested intermediate differentiated squamous cell carcinoma (cTNM IB).Interventions:Before admission, he was administered intravenous Ig 10 g once daily(qd) for 10 days, methylprednisolone 40 mg qd for a week, followed by prednisolone 50 mg qd for almost 8 weeks. Endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) was performed to remove all lesions with negative margin after prednisolone was tapered (5 mg per week until 10 mg qd).Outcomes:Despite prednisone being tapered to 2.5 mg qd within 2 months, complete remission of HSP and esophageal malignancy was achieved after the resection of the esophagus lesions during 12 months follow-up.Lessons:We report a rare case of oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma initially presented as HSP. This case suggests the importance of evaluating adult patients with HSP for an underlying malignancy.

