33311988
2020 Dec 4
Most patients diagnosed with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) have advanced diseases, and many are not eligible for curative therapies. There is growing evidence suggesting that the combination treatment of PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors and tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) is becoming a prospective trend for advanced HCC. For those HCC patients with sorafenib resistance, the efficacy of regorafenib combined with PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors remains unclear. Herein, we represent a case of HCC with lung metastasis in the setting of Hepatitis B virus (HBV)-induced liver cirrhosis responding dramatically to the sequential treatment with regorafenib followed by PD-1 inhibitor after initial liver resection. A 51-year-old man diagnosed with alpha fetoprotein (AFP)-negative HCC underwent liver resection in September 2015 and was found to have solitary liver recurrence and multiple lung metastases in March 2017. He received microwave coagulation therapy (MCT) and trans-arterial chemoembolization (TACE) for liver tumor and treatment was started with sorafenib 400 mg twice daily for controlling lung metastases. In December 2018, an abdominal computerized tomography (CT) scan showed two new lesions in the liver. In March 2019, disease progression of lung metastases was measured and he received 160 mg regorafenib once daily. After a short period of partial response, in December 2019, due to the progression of the disease, he started treatment with regorafenib 160 mg in combination with sintilimab (PD-1 inhibitor) (200 mg, 3 weeks as a cycle). Surprisingly, after five cycles of sintilimab injection, he showed complete response in target lesions. There was no clinical evidence of disease progression, and the side-effects were mild. The current overall survival (OS) is 58 months. Data from this clinical case report suggest that sequential treatment with regorafenib followed by PD-1 inhibitor is a promising therapeutic option for sorafenib-refractory cases of HCCs.
PD-1 inhibitor; hepatocellular carcinoma; regorafenib; sorafenib; sorafenib-refractory.
