33336849
2020 Dec 18
A new bidentate Schiff base ligand (ATBS [4-bromo-2-(thiazole-2-yliminomethyl)phenol]) was synthesized via the condensation reaction of 2-aminothiazole with 5-bromosalicylaldehyde in ethanol. The reaction of ATBS with transition metal salts of Cu(II), Co(II), Ni(II), and Mn(II) afforded the corresponding ATBS-M complexes. Results from physicochemical and spectral analyses, such as elemental analysis, infrared, UV-Vis spectroscopy, magnetic susceptibility, and molar conductance, revealed a nonelectrolytic nature with octahedral (Oh ) geometry and a metal/ligand ratio of 1:2 for Cu(II), Co(II), and Ni(II), but 1:1 for the Mn(II) complex. The density functional theory (DFT) calculations are correlated very well with the proposed structure and molecular geometry of the complexes as [M(ATBS)2 ] (M = Cu, Co, and Ni) and [Mn(ATBS)(H2 O)2 ]. Significantly, the prepared compounds showed strong inhibition activity for a wide spectrum of bacteria (Escherichia coli, Bacillus subtilis, and Staphylococcus aureus) and fungi (Candida albicans, Aspergillus flavus, and Trichophyton rubrum), with the ATBS-Ni complex being the most promising antibiotic agent. Molecular docking studies of the binding interaction between the title complexes with the bacterial protein receptor CYP51 revealed clear insights about the inhibition nature against the studied microorganisms, with the following order: ATBS-Cu > ATBS-Mn > ATBS-Ni > ATBS-Co for complex stability. Moreover, the cytotoxicity measurements of all prepared metal complexes against the colon carcinoma (HCT-116) and hepatocellular carcinoma (Hep-G2) cell lines showed exceptional anticancer efficacy of the complexes as compared with the free ATBS Schiff base ligand. Significantly, the results attested that ATBS-Cu is the most effective complex against HCT-116 cells, whereas ATBS-Mn has the highest cytotoxic efficiency against Hep-G2 cells. Furthermore, electronic spectra, viscosity measurements, and gel electrophoresis techniques were employed to probe the interaction of all prepared ATBS-metal complexes with calf thymus (CT)-DNA. Results confirmed that all complexes are strongly bound to CT-DNA via intercalation mode, with the ATBS-Co complex having the highest binding ability.
CT-DNA; DFT; antibiotics; anticancer; complexes; molecular docking; thiazoles.
