33331234
2020 Dec 17
In an attempt to identify suitable nano-carriers for drug delivery, natural drug umbelliferone was chosen to synthesize new modulated nanoconjugate of umbelliferone cobalt oxide with cobalt (II) nitrate in one pot assembly in the presence of tannic acid. The synthesized nanoconjugate drug (NCD) was then loaded on graphene oxide (GO) as drug carrier by simple ultrasonication method and thoroughly characterized by various spectroscopic techniques (FT-IR, SEM, TEM, XRD, EPR and thermogravimetric analysis) which revealed the successful loading of the nanoconjugate drug on GO. The UV-visible, fluorescence and electrochemical studies suggested that strong π-π stacking interactions exist between nanoconjugate drug and GO. The binding studies of NCD-GO with ct-DNA were performed by various optical and biophysical methods viz., UV-visible, fluorescence, circular dichroism (CD) and cyclic voltammetry (CV) which indicated electrostatic mode of binding towards the ct-DNA. Furthermore, condensate of nanoconjugate drug-loaded GO (NCD-GO) with ct-DNA was prepared and analyzed by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) which revealed that the interaction of NCD-GO with ct-DNA had occurred. Cleavage activity of NCD-GO with pBR322 was evaluated by gel electrophoresis and it was found that NCD-GO cleave DNA through hydrolytic pathway involving hydroxyl radical (OH). The cytotoxicity of NCD-GO was evaluated against human liver carcinoma (Huh-7), prostate cancer (Du-145) cell lines along with normal cell line (PNT 2). The results obtained showed selective cytotoxic activity of NCD-GO against Du-145 cell lines. The intracellular uptake was visualized by confocal microscopy which revealed the significant cellular uptake and internalization of nanoparticles by cells. Moreover, the adsorption of cobalt oxide umbelliferone on GO was studied by density functional theory. The process of adsorption was found exothermic in nature and the optimized geometry structure is quite stable. Communicated by Ramaswamy H. Sarma.
Nanoconjugates; cleavage studies; ct-DNA binding; cytotoxicity; density functional theory studies.
