23469606
2012 Dec
Objective:To study the main mechanisms of Aitongxiao Recipe (ATXR) for anti-tumor at the molecular level, and to clarify different efficient drugs' roles in anti-tumor, thus in-depth explaining the objectivity and substance of "cancer toxic" theory.Methods:Walker-256 tumor strain was used for Wistar rat transplanted liver cancer modeling. After successful modeling rats were randomly divided into 5 groups, i. e., the ATXP group, the qi regulating and blood circulating group (as the assembled I group), the heat clearing and detoxification group (as the assembled II group), the body resistance strengthening and cultivating group (as the assembled III group), and the model group, 10 in each group. Corresponding medication was given to rats in each group for 14 successive days. Finally rats were sacrificed and the tumor mass was taken out. The apoptosis rate and the cell cycle of tumor cells were detected by flow cytometry Annexin V/PI. The protein and mRNA expressions of Bcl-2 and survivin were detected using immunohistochemistry and real-time fluorescent quantitative PCR.Results:(1) The apoptosis of hepatoma carcinoma cells could be obviously promoted in the ATXP group. The cell cycle could also be affected, making major cells arrest at G0/G1 phase. The proliferation of hepatoma carcinoma cells was effectively prevented. The efficacy in the assembled II group was in line with that in the ATXP group with no statistical difference (P>0.05). It was also effective in the assembled III group, but its efficacy was not as good as that in the former two groups, showing statistical difference (P0.05). The effects of drugs for body resistance strengthening and cultivating were not as good as the former two, showing statistical difference (PConclusions:(1) ATXP could increase the apoptosis ratio of hepatoma carcinoma cells obviously through down-regulating the protein and mRNA expressions of Bcl-2 and survivin, thus inhibiting their proliferation. (2) Drugs for heat clearing and detoxification played the most important roles in ATXP. The evil heat and dampness (damp-heat insidious pathogen) is the most fundamental carcinogenic factors. The insufficiency of vital qi is also one of the pathogenic factors. The mechanisms of phlegm, stasis, and other pathological products are not clear and await further studies.

