24175223
2012 Dec 12
Antiviral treatment is the only option to prevent or defer the occurrence of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in patients chronically infected with hepatitis B virus (HBV) or hepatitis C virus (HCV). The approved medication for the treatment of chronic HBV infection is interferon-α (IFNα) and nucleos(t)ide analogues (NAs), including lamivudine, adefovir dipivoxil, telbivudine, entecavir and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate. IFNα is the most suitable for young patients with less advanced liver diseases and those infected with HBV genotype A. IFNα treatment significantly decreases the overall incidence of HBV-related HCC in sustained responders. However, side effects may limit its long-term clinical application. Orally administered NAs are typically implemented for patients with more advanced liver diseases. NA treatment significantly reduces disease progression of cirrhosis and therefore HCC incidence, especially in HBV e antigen-positive patients. NA-resistance due to the mutations in HBV polymerase is a major limiting factor. Of the NA resistance-associated mutants, A181T mutant significantly increases the risk of HCC development during the subsequent course of NA therapy. It is important to initiate treatment with NAs that have a high genetic barrier to resistance, to counsel patients on medication adherence and to monitor virological breakthroughs. The recommended treatment for patients with chronic HCV infection is peg-IFN plus ribavirin that can decrease the occurrence of HCC in those who achieve a sustained virological response and have not yet progressed to cirrhosis. IFN-based treatment is reserved for patients with decompensated cirrhosis who are under evaluation of liver transplantation to reduce post-transplant recurrence of HCV. More effective therapeutic options such as direct acting antiviral agents will hopefully increase the response rate in difficult-to-treat patients with HCV genotype 1. However, the risk of HCC remains in cirrhotic patients (both chronic HBV and HCV infection) if treatment is initiated after cirrhosis is established. Future research should focus on investigating new agents, especially for those patients with hepatic decompensation or post-transplantation.
Antiviral therapy; Hepatitis B virus; Hepatitis C virus; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Interferon; Nucleos(t)ide analogues; Virological response.
