26700118
2016 Feb 10
The Oncology Grand Rounds series is designed to place original reports published in the Journal into clinical context. A case presentation is followed by a description of diagnostic and management challenges, a review of the relevant literature, and a summary of the authors' suggested management approaches. The goal of this series is to help readers better understand how to apply the results of key studies, including those published in Journal of Clinical Oncology, to patients seen in their own clinical practice.A 78-year-old woman with a past medical history of hepatitis C virus (HCV) presented on routine examination to her family doctor with abnormal liver function tests. She was referred for liver ultrasound, which detected a liver mass. Multiphasic magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) diagnosed liver cirrhosis and a segment 7/8 lesion measuring 4 cm, suspicious for a hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), without evidence of portal hypertension. Child-Pugh (CP) score (ranging from 5 to 15) is a clinically relevant measure of synthetic liver function, based on international normalized ratio and albumin and bilirubin levels, as well as presence or absence of ascites and encephalopathy. A score of A5 or 6 is associated with better postoperative survival compared with CP B7 to 9 or CP C10 to 15, in which surgery is contraindicated. Her CP score was A6, based on a low albumin of 34 g/L. Platelets were slightly depressed at 121,000 μL, and alpha-fetoprotein level was 89 μg/L. She had not received treatment of her HCV because of her age and low viral load. She does not drink alcohol. Clinically the patient had an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status (PS) of 1, no stigmata of chronic liver disease, and no ascites or encephalopathy or other associated clinical symptoms. An HCC multidisciplinary cancer conference recommended surgical resection. The patient was taken to the operating room for a planned liver nonanatomic wedge resection. At the time of laparotomy, extensive cirrhosis was found and resection was abandoned because of the high risk of liver failure. A biopsy was not obtained, as the tumor had classic arterial enhancement and washout on venous and delayed-phase computed tomography (CT) imaging, which is diagnostic for HCC. After laparotomy, the patient developed liver insufficiency manifested by new ascites and peripheral edema, treated with diuretics, a low-salt diet, and fluid restriction. She was discharged home after a week and referred for a radiation oncology opinion. Three months after laparotomy, her liver function had recovered, with resolution of her ascites and PS of 2. It was decided to proceed with nonsurgical local therapy to the liver mass with curative intent.

