22946668
2012 Oct
To provide a basis for improved prevention and treatment of hepatitis B virus (HBV) re-infection after liver transplantation, variations in the S and P genes of HBV under immunosuppression in vitro and their association with patient prognosis were investigated. For the in vitro study, HepG2.2.15 hepatocellular carcinoma cells stably producing HBV particles were treated with the immunosuppressants methylprednisolone (MP) and tacrolimus (FK506) at doses found to be non-toxic by the methylthiazolyl tetrazolium (MTT) cell viability assay. MP dose-dependently inhibited HBV DNA expression in HepG2.2.15 cells, while FK506 did not, as determined by quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR). By gene sequencing, both MP and FK506 were found to cause variations in HBV S, P, and S/P overlapping regions. MP- but not FK506-induced mutations were common in the glucocorticoid response element of the P region, while both immunosuppressants caused mutations outside the nucleoside analogue resistance sites. For the in vivo study, 14 patients with HBV-related end-stage liver disease re-infected after liver transplantation, and 20 cases without HBV re-infection as controls, were studied. Seventy-five percent of re-infected recipients showed multi-loci amino acid mutations at different sites besides lamivudine (LAM)-resistant loci in the P region, including in the glucocorticoid response element. Fifty percent of re-infected recipients had mutations in the "a" determinant region and flanking sequences. Re-infection was associated with negative serum hepatitis B immunoglobulin (HBIG), as measured by a microparticle capture enzyme immunoassay. Nucleotide mutations in the S region caused missense or synonymous mutations, which caused synonymous mutations in the overlapping P region. These results showed that effects of immunosuppressants on HBV genes in vitro were different from those in clinical recipients. Positive HBV DNA and gene mutations pre-transplantation were factors affecting re-infection post-transplantation. Multiple mutations found in the P and S genes suggest that the formation of quasispecies contributes to HBV re-infection after liver transplantation.

