25539704
2015 Mar
Introduction:Sorafenib is an oral multikinase inhibitor that targets tumor cell angiogenesis and proliferation. Drug-associated cutaneous adverse events, such as alopecia and hand-foot skin reaction, occur frequently. Sorafenib-related side effects affecting hair, nails, and skin are summarized and the characteristics of sorafenib-treated patients who developed acneiform facial lesions are reviewed to present the clinical features of these individuals.Case report:A man with sorafenib-associated facial acneiform lesions mimicking those of chloracne is described.Discussion:PubMed was used to search the following terms, separately and in combination: acne, acneiform eruption, chloracne, cutaneous adverse events, hepatocellular carcinoma, renal cell carcinoma, skin side effects, and sorafenib. Inclusion criteria for selecting papers to be reviewed included case reports and studies that described cutaneous and mucosal adverse side effects associated with sorafenib. All papers fulfilling inclusion criteria were reviewed and relevant manuscripts, along with their reference citations, were evaluated. Five patients-a woman with liver epithelioid hemangioendothelioma, three men with metastatic renal cell carcinoma, and a man with hepatocellular carcinoma-have developed sorafenib-associated facial acneiform eruption. The eruption typically occurred after 4 weeks of treatment at a dose of 400 mg twice daily. The lesions presented as either papules and pustules (2 patients) or, similar in appearance and distribution to chloracne, only open and closed comedones (3 patients). The sorafenib-associated facial acneiform eruption partially improved after initiating topical antibiotics, keratolytics, and/or retinoids; however, progressive improvement or resolution occurred after lowering the daily dose or discontinuation of sorafenib.Conclusions:Sorafenib-associated facial acneiform eruption is a rarely occurring cutaneous adverse event that has only been observed in five individuals. The skin lesions usually presented after 4 weeks of sorafenib (at a dose of 400 mg twice daily) treatment. The morphology and distribution of the lesions mimicked those of chloracne in three of the patients. Two of the patients also had other drug-related skin side effects. Topical acne-directed therapy was only partially effective in clearing the lesions; lowering the dose or discontinuation of sorafenib resulted in progressive improvement or resolution of the facial acneiform eruption.

