32166493
2020 Aug
Objective:This study was conducted in order to compare the diagnostic performance of noncontrast and abbreviated MRI using gadoxetic acid for detecting hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in initially diagnosed HCC patients.Methods:We identified 140 consecutive patients with newly diagnosed HCC (173 HCCs) within the Milan criteria, who underwent liver MRI using gadoxetic acid between 2015 and 2016. One hundred twenty-three consecutive patients without HCC who underwent liver MRI in the same period for HCC surveillance were enrolled for the control group. Two radiologists independently reviewed two MRI sets: a noncontrast set and an abbreviated set. The noncontrast set consists of T2 FSE/ssFSE, T1 in- and out-of-phase image, DWI, and the ADC map. The abbreviated set consists of T2 FSE/ssFSE, hepatobiliary phase image 20 min after gadoxetic acid injection, DWI, and the ADC map.Results:In a per-patient analysis, sensitivity of reviewer 1 for noncontrast and abbreviated sets was 85.7 and 90.0%, respectively. The specificity for both noncontrast and abbreviated sets was 92.7%. For reviewer 2, sensitivity of noncontrast and abbreviated sets was 86.4 and 89.3%, respectively. Per-patient specificity of reviewer 2 was 92.7% for both noncontrast and abbreviated sets. The sensitivity and specificity of two image sets were not significantly different for both reviewers. The per-tumor sensitivity of noncontrast and abbreviated sets was 81.5 and 84.4% for reviewer 1, respectively, and 79.8 and 84.4% for reviewer 2, respectively. There was no significant difference.Conclusion:Noncontrast and abbreviated MRI using gadoxetic acid showed comparable diagnostic performance for detecting patients with HCCs in the early stage.Key points:• Diagnostic performance of noncontrast MRI and abbreviated MRI using gadoxetic acid for detecting HCCs is comparable in patients with HCCs in the early stage. • Noncontrast MRI and abbreviated MRI showed high sensitivity and specificity for detecting HCCs in the early stage. • Outcomes of surveillance for HCC in high-risk patients can be improved by adopting these simplified and focused MRI protocols.
Hepatocellular carcinoma; Liver; Magnetic resonance imaging; Surveillance.
