32412768
2020 Aug 7
Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is rising in prevalence in the United States and is a growing cause of hepatocellular carcinomas (HCCs). Site-specific glycan heterogeneity on glycoproteins has been shown as a potential diagnostic biomarker for HCC. Herein, we have performed a comprehensive screening of site-specific N-glycopeptides in serum haptoglobin (Hp), a reporter molecule for aberrant glycosylation in HCC, to characterize glycopeptide markers for NASH-related HCCs. In total, 70 NASH patients (22 early HCC, 15 advanced HCC, and 33 cirrhosis cases) were analyzed, with Hp purified from 20 μL of serum in each patient, and 140 sets of mass spectrometry (MS) data were collected using liquid chromatography coupled with electron-transfer high-energy collisional dissociation tandem MS (LC-EThcD-MS/MS) for quantitative analysis on a novel software platform, Byos. Differential quantitation analysis revealed that five N-glycopeptides at sites N184 and N241 were significantly elevated during the progression from NASH cirrhosis to HCC (p < 0.05). Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis demonstrated that the N-glycopeptides at sites N184 and N241 bearing a monofucosylated triantennary glycan A3G3F1S3 had the best diagnostic performance in detection of early NASH HCC, area under the curve (AUC) = 0.733 and 0.775, respectively, whereas α-fetoprotein (AFP) had an AUC of 0.692. When combined with AFP, the two panels improved the sensitivity for early NASH HCC from 59% (AFP alone) to 73% while maintaining a specificity of 70%, based on the optimal cutoff. Two-dimensional (2-D) scatter plots of the AFP value and N-glycopeptides showed that these N-glycopeptide markers detected 58% of AFP-negative HCC patients as distinct from cirrhosis. These site-specific N-glycopeptides could serve as potential markers for early detection of HCC in patients with NASH-related cirrhosis.
Byologic; Byos; EThcD-MS/MS; HCC; NASH; haptoglobin; site-specific glycopeptides.
