32724415
2020 Aug
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the third leading cause of cancer-related death worldwide. Clinical management has improved the prognosis of early HCC, but that of advanced HCC remains poor. Sorafenib, an oral multikinase inhibitor, provided a treatment option for advanced-stage HCC, and prolonged the survival and inhibited tumor progression as first-line therapy in patients with advanced HCC. In this study, we investigated if specific microRNAs could act as predictive biomarkers of sorafenib effectiveness and indicate the best time to switch to second-line therapies. Sorafenib inhibited the proliferation of the Li-7, Hep3B, HepG2 and Huh7 liver cancer cell lines (effective group), but not that of the HLE, HLF and ALEX cancer cell lines (non-effective group). A microRNA (miRNA/miR) analysis was performed comparing sorafenib-effective and non-effective cells lines as well as serum samples from patients with HCC from sorafenib-effective (complete response/partial response) and -non-effective (progressive disease) groups before sorafenib administration and detected three differentially-expressed miRNAs that were common among the in vivo and in vitro samples. The increase rate (effective/non-effective) of hsa-miR-30d in the medium was higher than that in the cancer cells. hsa-miR-30d was highly expressed in the serum and exosomes of patients with HCC in the effective group when compared to those of the non-effective group. Additionally, the hsa-miR-30d expression in the medium of cancer cell lines was highly upregulated in the effective group compared with the non-effective group. These results suggested that hsa-miR-30d might be secreted by the cancer cells to the serum through the exosomes. We identified a specific circulating miRNA that is related to refractory HCC under sorafenib therapy. Therefore, hsa-miR-30d might serve as a predictive biomarker for the efficacy of sorafenib therapy in HCC.
HCC; hsa-miR-30d; miRNA; predictive biomarker; regorafenib; sorafenib.
