32764748
2020 Aug 7
Purpose/objectives:Recently a 1.5 Tesla MR Linac has been FDA approved and is commercially available. Clinical series describing treatment methods and outcomes for upper abdominal tumors using a 1.5 Tesla MR Linac are lacking. We present the first clinical series of upper abdominal tumors treated using a 1.5 Tesla MR Linac along with the acquisition of intra-treatment quantitative imaging.Materials/methods:10 patients with abdominal tumors were treated at our institution. Each patient enrolled in an IRB approved advanced imaging protocol. Both daily real-time adaptive and non-adaptive methods were used, and selection criteria are described. Adaptive plans were based on pre-beam motion-averaged or mid-position images derived from respiratory-correlated 4D-MRI. Quantitative intravoxel incoherent motion diffusion-weighted imaging and T2 mapping were acquired during plan adaptation. Real-time motion monitoring using cine MRI was performed during beam-on.Results:Median patient age was 68.2, five patients were female. Tumor types included liver metastatic lesions from melanoma and sarcoma, primary liver hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), and regional abdominal tumors included pancreatic metastatic lesions from renal cell carcinoma (RCC) along with two cases of recurrent pancreatic cancer. Doses included 30 Gy in 6 fractions, 33 Gy in 5 fractions, 50 Gy in 5 fractions, 45 Gy in 3 fractions, and 60 Gy in 3 fractions, depending on the location and clinical circumstances. Treatments were feasible and were successfully completed in all patients without significant acute toxicity, technical complications, or need for back up CT based treatment plans.Conclusions:We present a first clinical series of patients treated for pancreatic tumors, primary liver tumors, and secondary liver tumors with a 1.5 Tesla MR Linear accelerator using adapt-to-position and adapt-to-shape strategies. Treatments were well tolerated by all patients. Acquisition of fully quantitative MR imaging was feasible during the course of the treatment delivery workflow without extending overall treatment times.

