32828123
2020 Aug 22
Background:Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common malignant tumor of the liver, and its morbidity and mortality have been increasing in recent years. The early diagnosis and prompt treatment of small HCC are crucial to improve the prognosis and quality of life of patients. In China, hepatitis B virus infection is the main cause. HCC with a single tumor nodule of ≤ 3 cm in diameter, or HCC with a number of nodules, in which each nodule is ≤ 2 cm in diameter, with a total diameter of ≤ 3 cm, is considered as small HCC. The MRI liver-specific contrast agent can detect small HCC at the early stage. This has important clinical implications for improving the survival rate of patients.Main body:Gd-EOB-DTPA-enhanced MRI can significantly improve the sensitivity and specificity of the detection of HBV-related small hepatocellular carcinoma, providing an important basis for the clinical selection of appropriate personalized treatment. Gd-EOB-DTPA-enhanced MRI can reflect the degree of HCC differentiation, and the evaluation of HCC on Gd-EOB-DTPA-enhanced MRI would be helpful for the selection of the treatment and prognosis of HCC patients. The present study reviews the progress of the application of Gd-EOB-DTPA in the early diagnosis of small HCC, its clinical treatment, the prediction of the degree of differentiation, and the assessment of recurrence and prognosis of HCC, including the pharmacoeconomics and application limitations of Gd-EOB-DTPA. The value of the application of HCC with the Gd-EOB-DTPA was summarized to provide information for improving the quality of life and prolonging the survival of patients.Conclusion:Gd-EOB-DTPA-enhanced MRI has the diagnostic capability for small HCC with a diameter of ≤ 2 cm. This will have a broader application prospect in the early diagnosis of small liver cancer with a diameter of ≤ 1 cm in the future. The relationship between GD-EOB-DTPA-MRI and the degree of HCC differentiation has a large research space, and Gd-EOB-DTPA is expected to become a potential tool for the preoperative prediction and postoperative evaluation of HCC, which would be beneficial for more appropriate treatments for HCC patients.
Gd-EOB-DTPA; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Magnetic resonance imaging.
