32867390
2020 Aug 27
There is an increasing number of studies showing that thrombocytosis-accompanying a variety of solid tumors including colorectal cancer (CRC)-is associated with shorter survival and earlier development of metastases. The mechanisms of cancer-associated thrombocytosis are not completely understood yet. The aim of our study was to evaluate the role of IL-6 in tumor development and thrombocytosis in mice with inflammation-induced CRC, using a CRISPR/cas9 IL-6 knockout (KO) strain. Adult male FB/Ant mice (n = 39) were divided into four groups: (1) IL-6 KO controls (n = 5); (2) IL-6 KO CRC model group (n = 18); (3) Wild-type (WT) controls (n = 6); and (4) WT CRC model group (n = 10). CRC model animals in (2) and (4) received azoxymethane (AOM)/dextran sodium sulfate (DSS) treatment to induce inflammation-related CRC. Plasma and liver tissues were obtained to determine platelet counts, IL-6 and thrombopoietin-1 (TPO) levels. In 1 WT and 2 IL-6 KO mice in vivo confocal endomicroscopy and 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) PET/MRI examinations were performed to evaluate the inflammatory burden and neoplastic transformation. At the end of the study, tumorous foci could be observed macroscopically in both CRC model groups. Platelet counts were significantly elevated in the WT CRC group compared to the IL-6 KO CRC group. TPO levels moved parallelly with platelet counts. In vivo fluorescent microscopy showed signs of disordered and multi-nuclear crypt morphology with increased mucus production in a WT animal, while regular mucosal structure was prominent in the IL-6 KO animals. The WT animal presented more intense and larger colonic FDG uptake than IL-6 KO animals. Our study confirmed thrombocytosis accompanying inflammation-related CRC and the crucial role of IL-6 in this process. Significantly higher platelet counts were found in the WT CRC group compared to both the control group and the IL-6 KO group. Concomitantly, the tumor burden of WT mice was also greater than that of IL-6 KO mice. Our findings are in line with earlier paraneoplastic IL-6 effect suggestions.
colitis-associated cancer; colorectal cancer; interleukin-6; thrombocytosis; tumor model.
