32905444
2020 Aug 1
Our previous study has validated that higher matrix stiffness obviously improves vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) expression in HCC cells, highlighting a linkage between matrix stiffness and HCC angiogenesis. However, the effects of matrix stiffness on vascular endothelial cells in HCC and its underlying mechanism remain largely uncharacterized. Here we further analyzed the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 (VEGFR2) in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) grown on different stiffness substrates and explored its regulatory mechanism for better understanding matrix stiffness-regulated angiogenesis in HCC. Our results revealed that increased matrix stiffness significantly upregulated the expression of VEGFR2 in HUVECs, and the expression level of VEGFR2 was positively correlated with the expression levels of COL1 and lysyl oxidase in human HCC tissues and rat HCC tissue, moreover VEGFR2 and CD34 were co-localized at blood vessel of HCC tissues, indicating an obvious regulation role of matrix stiffness in VEGFR2 expression. Simultaneously, increased matrix stiffness also elevated the phosphorylation level of Akt and the expressions of integrin αV/β5 and nuclear Sp1 in HUVECs. Inhibition of integrin αVβ5 remarkably reversed the expression of VEGFR2 and phosphorylation level of Akt in HUVECs grown on higher stiffness substrate. Except that, PI3K inhibitor also suppressed the phosphorylation level of Akt and the expressions of VEGFR2 and nuclear Sp1 evidently. Taken together, higher matrix stiffness increased VEGFR2 expression in HUVECs, and integrin αVβ5/Akt/Sp1 pathway participated in stiffness-mediated effects on VEGFR2 upregulation. This study combining with our previous report discloses a new paradigm in which higher matrix stiffness as an initiator drives HCC angiogenesis via upregulating both VEGFR2 expression in vascular endothelial cells and VEGF expression in HCC cells.
Hepatocellular carcinoma; angiogenesis; matrix stiffness.
