32929353
2020 Aug 18
Background: In addition to protein tyrosine kinases, accumulating evidence has shown that protein tyrosine phosphatases (PTPs) are suitable therapeutic targets in cancer. PRL-3 is a PTP member that has been well studied in many malignant tumours. The goal of the present study was to elucidate the role of PRL-3 in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), which remains largely unknown. Methods: Bioinformatic and immunohistochemical analyses were performed to analyse PRL-3 expression in HCC tissue samples and determine its clinical relevance. PRL-3 gene copy number variations were evaluated by bioinformatic analysis and quantitative-genomic polymerase chain reaction. The biological functions of PRL-3 were investigated in vivo and vitro. Gene microarray assays, RT-qPCR, western blotting and luciferase experiments were performed to identify the downstream effectors of PRL-3 that mediate its functions in HCC. Results: PRL-3 expression was upregulated in HCC samples from public databases and in cohort samples from our centre. High PRL-3 expression was associated with poor prognosis. Copy number gains and amplification of chromosome 8q24.3 in HCC were determined to be positively correlated with the PRL-3 overexpression. PRL-3 overexpression promoted HCC cell proliferation, migration and adhesion, while its loss had the opposite effects. Further study showed that focal adhesion kinase (FAK) was co-amplified and co-expressed with PRL-3 in HCC. Interestingly, PRL-3 also promoted the phosphorylation of FAK, which subsequently mediated the oncogenic functions of PRL-3 in HCC cells. Moreover, TGFB1 was identified as a downstream molecule of PRL-3. TGF-β signalling was shown to mediate the PRL-3-induced activation of FAK. Furthermore, the p38 and PI3K/AKT pathways were observed to mediate the PRL-3-induced expression of TGFB1 and the subsequent activation of FAK, while the activation of FAK in turn stimulated activation of the p38 and PI3K/AKT pathways, forming a PRL-3-triggered AKT/p38/TGFB1/FAK positive feedback loop. Conclusion: Collectively, our findings indicate that the PTP PRL-3 plays a crucial role in the progression of HCC and provides an example of how co-amplified genes work together in HCC.
Copy number variations; HCC; PRL-3; Phosphatase; TGFB1.
