32923710
2020 Aug 29
Cissus incisa is used in traditional Mexican medicine to treat certain ailments, infectious or cancerous diseases. Excepting for our previous research, this species had no scientific reports validating its traditional use. In this study, we evaluated the antibacterial and cytotoxic properties of the sphingolipids and others phytocompounds isolated from C. incisa leaves to increase the scientific knowledge of the Mexican flora. The antibacterial activity was evaluated against Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria by the Microdilution method. Meanwhile, the cytotoxic potential was determined on six human cancer cells: PC3, Hep3B, HepG2, MCF7, A549, and HeLa; using an aqueous solution cell proliferation assay kit. A cell line of immortalized human hepatocytes (IHH) was included as a control of non-cancerous cells. Selectivity index (SI) was determined only against the hepatocellular carcinoma cell lines. The phytochemical investigation of C. incisa leaves resulted in the isolation and characterization of five compounds: 2-(2'-hydroxydecanoyl amino)-1,3,4-hexadecanotriol-8-ene (1), 2,3-dihydroxypropyl tetracosanoate (2), β-sitosterol-D-glucopyranoside (3), α-amyrin-3-O-β-D-glucopyranoside (4), and a mixture of cerebrosides (5). Until now, this is the first report of the sphingolipids (1), (5-IV) and (5-V). Only the compound (4) and cerebrosides (5) exhibited antibacterial activity reaching a MIC value of 100 μg/mL against Pseudomonas aeruginosa resistant to carbapenems. While, the acetylated derivate of (3), compound (3Ac) showed the best cytotoxic result against PC3 (IC50 = 43 ± 4 μg/mL) and Hep3B (IC50 = 49.0 ± 4 μg/mL) cancer cell lines. Likewise, (3Ac) achieved better SI values on HepG2 and Hep3B cell lines. This research reveals the importance of study medicinal plants, to identify bioactive molecules as sources of potential drugs. The presence of these compounds allows us to justify the use of this plant in traditional Mexican medicine.
Antibacterial activity; Cissus incisa; Cytotoxic activity; Natural product chemistry; Sphingolipids; Traditional medicine.
