32953729
2020 Aug
Background:Stored red blood cell (RBC) transfusion has been shown to enhance the risk of cancer recurrence. However, the underlying mechanism remains unknown. At our lab, we have demonstrated that the extracellular ubiquitin (eUb) released by aged RBCs could promote tumor metastasis in a melanoma mouse model. This study aimed to confirm the pro-tumor effect of eUb on hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and explore the related immunoregulatory mechanisms.Methods:Forty HCC tissue specimens and the corresponding adjacent nontumor and normal liver tissues were collected. Two human hepatoma cell lines (MHCC-97H and HepG2.2.15), one murine hepatoma cell line (Hepa1-6), and one human monocyte cell line (THP-1) were adopted in this study. The coculture of hepatoma cells with macrophages was initiated with Transwell inserts. Cell migration in vitro was detected by Transwell and wound-healing assays, while in vivo tumor metastasis was measured by luciferase assay and H&E staining. Macrophage polarization was measured by flow cytometry, immunofluorescence, ELISA, qPCR, and Western blot. Protein expression was detected by Western blot, and immunoprecipitation was used to confirm the interaction between Ub and CXCR4 (CXC chemokine receptor type 4).Results:Ub and CXCR4 were significantly upregulated in HCC tissues, and a positive correlation existed between them. In vitro, the migration of hepatoma cells was not affected by eUb directly, but their metastatic abilities were enhanced after coculture with the macrophages pretreated with eUb. Meanwhile, eUb promoted hepatoma cell metastasis in the lung in vivo and increased the ratio of M2 macrophages in the lung tissues and peripheral blood of tumor-bearing mice. Furthermore, the eUb-induced M2 macrophage polarization was related to the activation of the CXCR4/ERK (extracellular regulated protein kinase) signaling pathway.Conclusions:Extracellular ubiquitin promoted hepatoma metastasis through M2 macrophage polarization via the activation of the CXCR4/ERK signaling pathway, indicating that a personalized transfusion strategy is needed for the treatment of HCC patients. Neutralizing Ub in stored RBC units could lessen the detrimental clinical outcomes induced by the transfusion of stored RBCs.
CXCR4/ERK pathway; Ubiquitin; hepatoma; macrophage polarization; metastasis.
