32973867
2020 Aug 20
Introduction:WD repeat domain phosphoinositide-interacting protein 3 (WIPI3) is a member of the WIPI protein family, autophagy marker, that is associated with the malignant progression of various human cancers, but its role in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is still unclear.Materials and methods:Firstly, we collected the mRNA expression of WIPI3 in HCC through the platform of Oncomine, as well as the DNA copy number variations (CNVs), and verified it on human HCC cell line and the GEO database. Then, the subgroups and prognosis of HCC were performed by the UALCAN web tool. The mutation of WIPI3 was analyzed by cBioPortal. The coexpression of WIPI3 in HCC was identified from the LinkedOmics database, and function enrichment analysis was done using the LinkFinder module in LinkedOmics. Coexpression gene network was constructed through the STRING database, and the MCODE plug-in of which was used to build the gene modules; both of them were visualized by the Cytoscape software. Finally, the top modular genes in the same patient cohort were constructed through data mining in The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) liver hepatocellular carcinoma (LIHC) by using the UCSC Xena browser.Results:The results indicated that WIPI3 was frequently overexpressed in HCC, which could lead to a poor prognosis through the Kaplan-Meier (KM) analysis. Moreover, there existed mutations of WIPI3 in HCC, and the prognosis of WIPI3-altered group was significantly poor based on KM plotter data. Coexpression analysis showed that the coexpression gene of WIPI3 was associated with cell cycle and spliceosome. Further analysis suggested that WIPI3 and eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4A3 (EIF4A3) coordinately regulated the cancer cell cycle by spliceosome as a result of the strong positive correlation between them.Conclusion:In summary, WIPI3 is constantly overexpressed in HCC tissues, resulting in a poor prognosis; therefore, we can identify it as an effective target for the treatment of HCC.
EIF4A3; WIPI3; hepatocellular carcinoma; mutation; prognosis.
