33103093
2020 Aug 24
Background & aims:SORAMIC is a prospective phase II randomised controlled trial in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). It consists of 3 parts: a diagnostic study and 2 therapeutic studies with either curative ablation or palliative Yttrium-90 radioembolisation combined with sorafenib. We report the diagnostic cohort study aimed to determine the accuracy of gadoxetic acid-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), including hepatobiliary phase (HBP) imaging features compared with contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT). The primary objective was the accuracy of treatment decisions stratifying patients for curative or palliative (non-ablation) treatment.Methods:Patients with clinically suspected HCC underwent gadoxetic acid-enhanced MRI (HBP MRI, including dynamic MRI) and contrast-enhanced CT. Blinded read of the image data was performed by 2 reader groups (radiologists, R1 and R2). A truth panel with access to all clinical data and follow-up imaging served as reference. Imaging criteria for curative ablation were defined as up to 4 lesions vs. CT in a first step and superiority in a second step.Results:The intent-to-treat population comprised 538 patients. Treatment decisions matched the truth panel assessment in 83.3% and 81.2% for HBP MRI (R1 and R2), and 73.4% and 70.8% for CT. Non-inferiority and superiority (second step) of HBP MRI vs. CT were demonstrated (odds ratio 1.14 [1.09-1.19]). HBP MRI identified patients with >4 lesions significantly more frequently than CT.Conclusions:In HCC, HBP MRI provided a more accurate decision than CT for a curative vs. palliative treatment strategy.Lay summary:Patients with hepatocellular carcinoma are allocated to curative or palliative treatment according to the stage of their disease. Hepatobiliary imaging using gadoxetic acid-enhanced MRI is more accurate than CT for treatment decision-making.
APASL, Asian Pacific Association for the Study of the Liver; BCLC, Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer; CT, computed tomography; DWI, diffusion-weighted imaging; GEE, generalised estimating equation; GRE, gradient echo; Gadoxetic acid; HBP, hepatobiliary phase; HCC, hepatocellular carcinoma; HGDN, high-grade dysplastic nodule; Hepatocellular carcinoma; ITT, intent to treat; MRI, magnetic resonance imaging; Magnetic resonance imaging; OR, odds ratio; PP, per protocol; RFA, radio-frequency ablation; SORAMIC trial; SORAMIC, Sorafenib and Micro-Therapy Guided by Gadolinium-EOB-DTPA-Enhanced MRI; TSE, turbo spin echo.
