22334599
2012 Jul
Variation in xenobiotic metabolism cannot entirely be explained by genetic diversity in metabolic enzymes. We suggest that maternal diet during gestation can contribute to variation in metabolism by creating an in utero environment that shapes the offspring's defence against chemical carcinogens. Therefore, pregnant mice were supplemented with the natural aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) agonist quercetin (1 mmol quercetin/kg feed) until delivery. Next, it was investigated whether the adult offspring at the age of 12 weeks had altered biotransformation of the environmental pollutant benzo[a]pyrene (B[a]P). In utero quercetin exposure resulted in significantly enhanced gene expression of Cyp1a1, Cyp1b1, Nqo1 and Ugt1a6 in liver of foetuses at Day 14.5 of gestation. Despite cessation of supplementation after delivery, altered gene expression persisted into adulthood, but in a tissue- and gender-dependent manner. Expression of Phase I enzymes (Cyp1a1 and Cyp1b1) was up-regulated in the liver of adult female mice in utero exposed to quercetin, whereas expression of Phase II enzymes (Gstp1, Nqo1 and Ugt1a6) was predominantly enhanced in the lung tissue of female mice. Epigenetic mechanisms may contribute to this adapted gene expression, as the repetitive elements (SINEB1) were hypomethylated in liver of female mice prenatally exposed to quercetin. Studies on ex vivo metabolism of B[a]P by lung and liver microsomes showed that the amount of B[a]P-9,10-dehydrodiol, B[a]P-7,8-dihydrodiol and 3-hydroxy-B[a]P did not change, but the amount of unmetabolised B[a]P was significantly lower after incubation with lung microsomes from offspring that received quercetin during gestation. Moreover, ex vivo B[a]P-induced DNA adduct formation was significantly lower for liver microsomes of offspring that were exposed to quercetin during gestation. These results suggest that prenatal diet leads to persistent alterations in Phase I and II enzymes of adult mice and may affect cancer risk.

