23142797
2013 Jul
Objective:The chemopreventive potential of (+)-catechin-rich extract of Acacia catechu (L.f.) Willd. heartwood (AQCE) was evaluated against human breast adenocarcinoma cell line (MCF-7) and 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene (DMBA)-induced mammary carcinoma in Balb/c mice.Methods:Cell cytotoxicity was investigated using different colorimetric assays. Apoptosis was observed using diphenylamine assay and fluorescent microscopy. AQCE was further evaluated for antitumor activity against DMBA-induced mammary carcinoma. The levels of tumor markers and oxidative stress were measured. Furthermore, level of transcription factors was measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.Results:The results showed that administration of AQCE showed a dose-dependent growth inhibition response and DNA fragmentation in MCF-7 cells. Tumor multiplicity was significantly decreased to 42.91% with AQCE when compared with DMBA-treated animals. The levels of tumor markers such as total sialic acid and lipid-associated sialic acid were substantially increased after DMBA treatment. However, AQCE treatment restored tumor markers level. AQCE also significantly reduced elevated levels of nitrite and malondialdehyde in DMBA-treated animals. Additionally, AQCE also increased the activities of antioxidant enzymes, viz., catalase, superoxide dismutase, total thiol, reduced glutathione, protein thiol, glutathione peroxidase, glutathione reductase, and glutathione-S-transferase in the mammary tissue and liver mitochondria of DMBA-administered animals. Significant increase in the protein levels of p53, c-jun, and p65 were observed in DMBA-treated mice, whereas less expression was observed in AQCE-treated animals. Eventually, AQCE also significantly improved body weight and maintained the mammary tissue architecture in normal range.Conclusions:The present data strongly suggest that anticancer potentiality of (+)-catechin-rich AQCE may be attributable to its ability to positively modulate tumor markers as well as the antioxidant system that could decompose the peroxides and, thereby, offer a protection against lipid peroxidation and linked to the expression of transcription factors during DMBA-induced mammary carcinoma.
AP-1; Acacia catechu; NF-κB; cytotoxicity; oxidative stress; p53; tumor markers.
