23960797
2012 Jul
The large molecular size of antibodies is considered one major factor preventing them from becoming more efficient therapeutically. It is well established that all camelids have unique antibodies circulating in their blood called heavy-chain antibodies (HcAbs). Unlike antibodies from other species, these HcAbs contain a single variable domain and two constant domains (CH2 and CH3). HcAbs are a novel type of immunoglobulin-like, antigen binding protein with beneficial pharmacokinetic properties that are ideally suited to targeting cellular antigens for molecular imaging or therapeutic purposes. Since the antigen-binding site of dromedary HcAb is comprised in one single domain, it was referred to as nanobody. In the present work, the different IgG subclasses from immunized camel (Camelus dromedairus) were purified employing their different affinity for protein A column (PA) and protein G column (PG). Characterization of IgG subclasses was done by using 12% SDS-PAGE under reducing conditions. Protein bands were visualized after staining with Coomassie Brilliant Blue, showing two bands at 50 kDa and 30 kDa in case of IgG1 while IgG2 and IgG3 produce only one band at 46 kDa and 43 kDa respectively. The induction of apoptosis by either conventional or nanobodies was evaluated on two different cell lines, Colon and Hepatic cancer cell (HCT116 and HepG2), using the comet assay. Induced apoptosis were confirmed by visualizing DNA fragmentation bands on 2% agarose gel, and the gel was photographed under UV light. This study demonstrates the successful targeting of human cancer colon cell lines by nanobodies in vitro. It may open perspectives for their future use as tumor target vehicle, due to their small size, soluble behavior and they interact with epitopes that are less antigenic for conventional antibodies.
Cancer colon cell lines; HcAbs; Hepatocellular carcinoma cell lines; Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Camelus dromedairus; Nanobodies; Single cell gel electrophoresis (comet assay).
