19501994
2010 Oct
Purpose:This study was to analyze the magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) features of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) with bile duct tumor thrombi, and explore their correlations to histopathology to improve the accuracy of diagnosis.Materials and methods:21 patients with pathologically confirmed HCC with bile duct tumor thrombi was performed with a superconducting 1.5-T MR imager within two weeks before operation. Magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP) was performed on 18 patients. Images were retrospectively assessed for the size, location and MRI manifestations of HCC lesions and associated bile duct tumor thrombi. The differentiation of HCC lesions and the pathologic changes of bile duct tumor thrombi were retrospectively analyzed under microscope.Results:The average diameter of HCC lesions was 5.8±2.8 cm, and ≤5.0 cm in nine cases. Capsule formation was observed on MRI or pathology in 4 cases of HCC (19%). Of the 21 cases with bile duct tumor thrombi, 20 were clearly presented on MRI as cord-like or columnar masses in the bile duct with proximal cholangiectasis. The tumor thrombi showed slightly hypointense on T1WI and slightly hyperintense on T2WI. On enhanced scan, three cases of tumor thrombi, which were mainly consisted of necrotic tissue, did not show enhancement; 17 cases, which were mainly consisted of cancer cells, showed mild or moderate enhancement. On magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatogram (MRCP), 14 cases of tumor thrombi presented as filling defect in the bile duct, abrupt obstruction of the bile duct, and cholangiectasis above the obstruction; four presented as dilated intra-hepatic bile ducts with missing common bile duct. Of the 21 patients, 16 had biliary hemorrhage; three also had tumor thrombi in the portal vein. Seventeen of the 21 HCC with biliary thrombi were poorly differentiated, unencapsulated and with an invasive growth. Nineteen of 21 bile duct tumor thrombi did not invade the bile duct wall and could be easily extracted.Conclusion:MRI plays a valuable role in diagnosing HCC with bile duct tumor thrombi and identifying the extent of the thrombi; the MRI features of HCC with bile duct tumor thrombi are associated with its pathologic changes.

