20642020

Estrogens and progestins are endogenous hormones that produce many physiological effects (1). Estrogens act primarily by regulating gene expression. Estrogen receptors (ERs) are found in the cytoplasm and nucleus of cells of the female reproductive tract, breast, pituitary, hypothalamus, bone, liver, and other tissues, and also in various tissues in men. Estrogens are lipophilic in that they enter the cell passively by diffusion through the cellular membrane. Estrogens bind to ERs that are present in the cytoplasm and the complexes are transported into the nucleus.Breast cancer is the most common malignancy in women. Approximately 33% of women who have this disease will die of disseminated breast cancer. The growth of breast epithelial cells is dependent on estrogen stimulation, which induces progestin receptor expression. Two thirds of breast carcinomas express ERs. It has also been established that the ER status of the tumor is an important prognostic indicator in breast cancer (2). Women with ER-positive breast tumors have a better prognosis than women with ER-negative tumors in terms of responsiveness to anti-estrogen treatment. ER content in breast cancer is assessed in vitro with receptor binding assays, which suffer from interassay variability, are limited by intrinsic receptor heterogeneity of the tumor, and do not yield information on the ER density in metastases. 16α-[18F]Fluoro-17β-estradiol ([18F]FES) has been proven to be a valuable tracer for studies of the ER status of primary and metastatic breast cancer (3). However, [18F]FES was cleared from the blood and was metabolized in 20 min with only 20% of [18F]FES intact in a study of 15 breast cancer patients (4). Toremifene (TOR) is a chlorinated analog of tamoxifen (5, 6), which was first approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration in the 1970s for use in breast cancer treatment. TOR is primarily used in the treatment of patients with metastatic breast cancer (7). Yurt et al. (8) coupled diethylenetriamine pentaacetic acid (DTPA) to TOR to form (3Z)-4-{4-[2-(dimethylamino)ethoxy]phenyl}-3,4-diphenylbut-3-en-1-ylN,N-bis[2-(2,6-dioxomorpholin-4-yl)ethyl]glycinate (DTPA-TOR) and radiolabeled the DTPA-TOR with 99mTc. 99mTc-DTPA-TOR exhibited high breast tissue/background ratio in female rats.

