21140081
Jul-Sep 2010
Context:Presently the MELD score is used as the waiting list criterion for liver transplantation in Brazil. In this method more critical patients are considered priority to transplantation.Objective:To compare the results of liver transplantation when the chronologic waiting list was the criterion for organ allocation (pre-MELD era) with MELD score period (MELD era) in one liver transplantation unit in Brazil.Methods:The charts of the patients subjected to liver transplantation at the Hospital de Clínicas da Universidade Federal do Paraná, Curitiba, PR, Brazil, were reviewed from January of 2001 to August of 2008. Patients were divided into two groups: pre-MELD era and MELD era. They were compared in relation to demographics of donors and receptors, etiology of cirrhosis, cold and warm ischemia time, presence of hepatocellular carcinoma, MELD score and Child-Pugh score and classification at the time of transplantation, units of red blood cells transfused during the transplantation, intensive care unit stay, total hospital stay and 3 month and 1 year survival.Results:Initially, 205 liver transplantations were analyzed. Ninety four were excluded and 111 were included: 71 on the pre-MELD era and 40 on the MELD era. The two groups were comparable in relation to donors and receptors age and sex, etiology of cirrhosis and cold and warm ischemia time. The receptors of the MELD era had more hepatocellular carcinoma than those of the pre-MELD era (37.5% vs 16.9%). Patients with hepatocellular carcinoma had less advanced cirrhosis on both eras. The MELD score was the same on both eras. Excluding the cases of hepatocellular carcinoma, MELD era score was higher than pre-MELD score (18.2 vs 15.8). There were an increased number of transplants on Child-Pugh A and C and a decreased number on Child-Pugh B receptors on MELD era. Both eras had the same need of red blood cells transfusion, intensive care unit stay and hospital stay. Also, 3 month and 1 year survival were the same: 76% and 74.6% on pre-MELD era and 75% and 70.9% on MELD era.Conclusion:In our center, after the introduction of MELD score as the priority criterion for liver transplantation there were an increased number of transplants with hepatocellular carcinoma. Excluding these patients, the receptors were operated upon with more advanced cirrhosis. Nevertheless the patients had the same need for red blood cells transfusion, intensive care unit and hospital stay and 3 months and 1 year survival.

