32184169
2020 Jun 5
Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most frequent liver disease and associated with a wide spectrum of hepatic disorders ranging from nonalcoholic fatty liver (NAFL) to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), cirrhosis, and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). NASH is projected to become the most common indication for liver transplantation, and the annual incidence rate of NASH-related HCC is 5.29 cases per 1000 person-years. Owing to the epidemics of NAFLD and the unclear mechanism of NAFLD progression, it is important to elucidate the underlying NAFLD mechanisms in detail. NASH is mainly caused by the development of NAFL Therefore, it is also of great significance to understand the mechanism of progression from NAFL to NASH. Gene expression chip data for NAFLD and NASH were downloaded from the Gene Expression Omnibus database to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between NAFLD and normal controls (called DEGs for NAFLD), as well as between NASH and normal tissue (called DEGs for NASH-Normal), and between NASH and NAFL tissue (called DEGs for NASH-NAFL). For DEGs for the NAFLD group, key genes were identified by studying the form of intersection. Potential functions of DEGs for NASH were then analyzed by gene ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment analyses. A protein-protein interaction network (PPI) was constructed using the STRING database. A total of 249 DEGs and one key gene for NAFLD were identified. For NASH-Normal, 514 DEGs and 11 hub genes were identified, three of which were closely related to the survival analysis of HCC, and potentially closely related to progression from NASH to HCC. One key gene for NASH-NAFL (AKR1B10) was identified. These genes appear to mediate the molecular mechanism underlying NAFLD and may be promising biomarkers for the presence of NASH.
Differentially expressed genes (DEGs); Microarray; Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH); Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD); Protein–protein interaction (PPI).
