32276135
2020 Jun
Targeted therapy is a new strategy for cancer treatment that targets chemical entities specific to cancer cells than normal ones. One of the features associated with malignancy is the elevated copper which plays an integral role in angiogenesis. Work is in progress in our lab to identify new copper chelators to target elevated copper under targeted therapy for the killing of cancer cells. Recently, a coumarin-based copper chelator, di(2-picolyl)amine-3(bromoacetyl)coumarin hybrid molecule (ligand-L) has been synthesized by us, and also studied its copper-dependent macromolecular damage response in copper overloaded lymphocytes. The present study investigates the anticancer activity of ligand-L and its mode of action in rat model of diethylnitrosamine (DEN) induced hepatocellular carcinoma. It has been found that liver tissue has a marked increase in copper levels in DEN induced hepatocellular carcinoma. Ex vivo results showed that ligand-L inhibited cell viability, induced reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation, DNA damage, loss of mitochondrial membrane potential and caspase-3 activation in isolated hepatocellular carcinoma cells (HCC). All these effects induced by ligand-L were abrogated by neocuproine and N-acetylcysteine (ROS scavenger). Further, ligand-L treatment of animals bearing hepatocellular carcinoma results in an increment in the cellular redox scavengers, lipid peroxidation and DNA breakage in malignant hepatocytes. In vivo studies using ligand-L also showed that ligand-L possesses anticancer properties as evidenced by improvement in liver marker enzymes and liver surface morphology, and reduced alpha-fetoprotein in the treated group compared to untreated cancer-induced group. Overall, this study suggests that copper-ligand-L interaction leads to ROS generation which caused DNA damage and apoptosis in malignant cells. This study provides enough support to establish ligand-L as a clinically relevant lead molecule for the treatment of different malignancies.
Apoptosis; Cancer; Copper; Coumarin; DNA damage; ROS; Targeted therapy.
