32320717
2020 Jun
In a 79 week bioassay the pesticide synergist piperonyl butoxide (PBO) was shown to significantly increase the incidence of hepatocellular adenoma (but not hepatocellular carcinoma) in male CD-1 mice at dietary levels of 100 and 300 mg/kg/day PBO and in female mice at a dietary level of 300 mg/kg/day. As PBO is not a genotoxic agent, a series of investigative studies were undertaken to elucidate the mode of action (MOA) for PBO-induced mouse liver tumour formation. Male CD-1 mice were fed diets to provide intakes of 0 (control), 30, 100 and 300 mg/kg/day PBO and for purposes of comparison 500 ppm sodium phenobarbital (NaPB), a known constitutive androstane receptor (CAR) activator, for 7 and 14 days. Treatment with 100 and 300 mg/kg/day PBO and 500 ppm NaPB increased relative liver weight which was associated with hepatocyte hypertrophy, with hepatocyte replicative DNA synthesis (RDS) being increased after 7 days treatment. The treatment of CD-1 mice with 30-300 mg/kg/day PBO for 14 days resulted in significant dose-dependent increases in hepatic microsomal cytochrome P450 (CYP) content and 7-pentoxyresorufin O-depentylase (PROD) activity and in hepatic Cyp2b10 mRNA levels. In contrast, PBO produced a biphasic effect on markers of activation of the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARα), with small increases in microsomal lauric acid 12-hydroxylase activity and hepatic Cyp4a10 mRNA levels being observed in mice given 100 mg/kg/day with PBO, with either no increase or a significant inhibition being observed in mice given 300 mg/kg/day PBO. The hepatic effects of PBO in male CD-1 mice were generally similar to those produced by NaPB and were reversible after the cessation of treatment for 28 days. Studies were also performed in male C57BL/6J (wild type) mice and in hepatic CAR and pregnane X receptor (PXR) knockout mice (CAR KO/PXR KO mice), where in the CAR KO/PXR KO mice PBO had little effect on markers of CAR activation, but produced some increases in markers of PPARα activation. The treatment of male CD-1 mouse hepatocytes for 4 days with 5-50 μM PBO, 10-1000 μM NaPB and 25 ng/mL epidermal growth factor (EGF) resulted in significant increases in hepatocyte RDS. While treatment of hepatocytes from one male and one female human donor with 5-500 μM PBO and 10-1000 μM NaPB for 4 days had no effect on hepatocyte RDS, treatment with EGF resulted in significant increases in RDS in both human hepatocyte preparations. In summary, PBO is predominantly a hepatic CAR activator at carcinogenic dose levels in CD-1 mice, with activation of hepatic CAR resulting in a suppression of the effect of PBO on hepatic PPARα. A robust MOA for PBO-induced mouse liver tumour formation has been established, this MOA being similar to that previously identified for NaPB and some other rodent liver CAR activators. Based on the lack of effect of PBO on RDS in human hepatocytes, it is considered that the MOA for PBO-induced mouse liver tumour formation is qualitatively not plausible for humans.
Constitutive androstane receptor; Human relevance; Mode of action; Mouse liver tumour formation; Piperonyl butoxide; Replicative DNA synthesis.
