32527114
2020 Jun 3
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the fourth most common cause of cancer related mortality worldwide, with the most common underlying etiologies being chronic hepatitis B and hepatitis C infections. Treatment of these viral hepatidities in the setting of HCC has been debated, and there is increasing study addressing this topic. Patients with advanced HCC of either etiology are unlikely to benefit from antiviral treatments, and futility should be considered prior to starting antiviral therapy. Hepatitis B treatment has demonstrated improved survival, decreased risk of hepatitis B reactivation, and decreased risk of late HCC recurrence. The mainstay treatment of chronic hepatitis B has been nucleos(t)ide analogues (NAs), and in the setting of HCC, entecavir and tenofovir are preferred given their higher potency and barriers to resistance. Those who were already on a NAs at the time of HCC diagnosis should be continued on them regardless of the HCC management planned. Patients who are suitable candidates to start NAs should start them at the time of HCC diagnosis. Direct-acting antivirals (DAAs) are the first line therapies for hepatitis C. Unlike with hepatitis B, those with HCV-associated HCC are recommended to start treatment 3-6 months after complete treatment of their HCC, given lower rates of sustained virologic response (SVR) with active HCC. There are also controversial concerns about DAAs contributing to a more aggressive HCC phenotype, but data are limited by retrospective studies, and more recent retrospective studies are more reassuring. In transplant candidates, starting DAAs may be deferred until after transplant depending on median regional wait times, availability of HCV positive organs, and the degree of the patient's liver dysfunction. Overall, in patients with HCC from hepatitis B or C, treatment of the underlying viral hepatitis should be considered unless advanced stage limits benefits and results in futility.
Hepatitis B therapy; hepatitis C therapy; hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).
