32548687
2020 Jun 16
Background:Locally advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), which is unsuitable for standard locoregional therapies, remains a challenge to manage. Among the recently developed treatments, proton beam therapy (PBT) has been reported to achieve good local control. However, in patients with large HCC adjacent to the esophagus, high-dose PBT may rarely lead to radiation-induced esophageal necrosis or perforation. Furthermore, the optimal strategy to safely treat these fatal complications remains unclear.Case presentation:A 49-year-old man who was diagnosed with a large (16 cm) HCC in the right lobe with tumor thrombosis in the main trunk of the portal vein (PVTT) received high-dose hypofractionated PBT in another hospital. A total dose of 66 GyE in 10 fractions was administered to the primary tumor and the PVTT. After 5 months, a 1-cm solitary nodule was noted in the upper lobe of the right lung. Therefore, sorafenib was started. About 6 months after the PBT, lower esophageal mucosal inflammation that progressed to an ulcer was noted. About 7 months after the PBT, the lower esophagus developed full-thickness necrosis. Therefore, emergency thoracoscopic esophagectomy was performed, followed by two-stage reconstruction 2 months later. The operation and postoperative clinical course were mostly uneventful, except for a minor anastomotic leakage. The outcome of the primary HCC, including the PVTT, was graded as a complete response, which has been maintained for 51 months after the PBT.Conclusion:PBT is a promising option for patients with locally advanced HCC; however, for large tumors adjacent to the esophagus, ischemic esophageal necrosis due to antiangiogenic effects may occur, particularly with the combined use of PBT and sorafenib. In such a life-threatening condition, the thoracoscopic esophagectomy and the two-stage reconstruction are a safe option that can prevent critical postoperative complications due to the poor general condition, effects of PBT on the remnant gastric conduit, and use of sorafenib.
Esophagus; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Necrosis; Sorafenib.
