32561087
2020 Jun
Background:Treatment of liver metastases of colorectal carcinoma is surgical resection. However, only 10-15% of the patients in this context will be candidate for curative resection arising other 10-13% after response to neoadyuvant chemotherapy. In order to perform the liver metastases surgery, it is necessary to have a sufficient remnant liver volume (RLV) which allows maintaining an optimal liver function after resection. Studies on liver regeneration have determined that CD133 + stem cells are involved in liver hypertrophy developed after an hepatectomy with encouraging results. As presented in previous studies, CD133 + stem cells can be selected from peripheral blood after stimulation with G-CSF, being able to obtain a large number of them. We propose to treat patients who do not meet criteria for liver metastases surgery because of insufficient RLV (<40%) with CD133 + cells together with portal embolization, in order to achieve enough liver volume which avoids liver failure.Methods:/Design: The aim of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of preoperative PVE plus the administration of CD133 + mobilized from peripheral blood with G-CSF compared to PVE only. SECONDARY AIMS ARE: to compare the grade of hypertrophy, speed and changes in liver function, anatomopathological study of hypertrophied liver, to determine the safety of the treatment and analysis of postoperative morbidity and surveillance.Study design:Prospective randomized longitudinal phase IIb clinical trial, open, to evaluate the efficacy of portal embolization (PVE) together with the administration of CD133 + cells obtained from peripheral blood versus PVE alone, in patients with hepatic metastasis of colorectal carcinoma (CCRHM).Discussion:The number of CD133 + obtained from peripheral blood after G -CSF stimulation will be far greater than the number obtained with direct puncture of bone marrow. This will allow a greater intrahepatic infusion, which could have a direct impact on achieving a larger and quicker hypertrophy. Consequently, it will permit the treatment of a larger number of patients with an increase on their survival.Trial registration:ClinicalTrials.gov, ID NCT03803241.
CD133+; Colorectal cancer; Liver function; Remnant volume; Stem cell.
