32564036
2020 Jun 17
Every year, 3-4 million people become infected with HCV, most of them are asymptomatic. In more than 20-30 years from infection, it leads to 10-20% of patients with cirrhosis, followed by hepatocellular carcinoma. Cardiological complications of the antiviral treatment are relatively rare, but force us to take additional diagnostic or discontinuation of therapy.Aim:The aim of study was to assess the cardiovascular safety of chronic hepatitis C treatment of genotype 1 in a triple regimen containing pegylated interferon-α in combination with ribavirin and boceprevir based on analysis of 24-hour ECG Holer monitoring, as well as changes in the concentration of cardiac fraction of fatty acid binding proteins (h-FABP).Materials and methods:14 hepatitis C patients and 15 healthy people were included. The participants had an ambulatory 24-hour ECG-Holter recording at home condition and the determined level of h-FABP at baseline, after 4 and 12-16 weeks of treatment and 2 weeks after the end of therapy. The HRV parameters, AC/DC and QTc was calculated.Results:At baseline there were no statistically significant differences in the HRV parameters, DC/AC, and QTc-interval. Absolute DC/AC values, HRV parameters: SDNN-ix, rMSDD, TP, HF, VLF and ULF were significantly lower in the treated group. LF/HF ratio was higher in this group (p=0.047). These changes persisted during the follow-up and disappeared after treatment. QTc was the shortest in the 4th week and withdrew during further follow-up. H-FABP levels did not differ statistically significantly between any subsequent determinations.Conclusions:At baseline there were no statistically significant differences in the HRV parameters, DC/AC, and QTc-interval. Absolute DC/AC values, HRV parameters: SDNN-ix, rMSDD, TP, HF, VLF and ULF were significantly lower in the treated group. LF/HF ratio was higher in this group (p=0.047). These changes persisted during the follow-up and disappeared after treatment. QTc was the shortest in the 4th week and withdrew during further follow-up. H-FABP levels did not differ statistically significantly between any subsequent determinations.
DC/AC; HRV; cardiovascular risk; chronic hepatitis C; h-FABP.
