32575865
2020 Jun 21
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the deadliest cancers in the world. Previous studies have identified the importance of alcohol and hepatitis B (HBV) infection on HCC carcinogenesis, indicating synergy in the methods by which these etiologies advance cancer. However, the specific molecular mechanism behind alcohol and HBV-mediated carcinogenesis remains unknown. Because the microbiome is emerging as a potentially important regulator of cancer development, this study aims to classify the effects of HBV and alcohol on the intratumoral liver microbiome. RNA-sequencing data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) were used to infer microbial abundance. This abundance was then correlated to clinical variables and to cancer and immune-associated gene expression, in order to determine how microbial abundance may contribute to differing cancer progression between etiologies. We discovered that the liver microbiome is likely oncogenic after exposure to alcohol or HBV, although these etiological factors could decrease the abundance of a few oncogenic microbes, which would lead to a tumor suppressive effect. In HBV-induced tumors, this tumor suppressive effect was inferred based on the downregulation of microbes that induce cancer and stem cell pathways. Alcohol-induced tumors were observed to have distinct microbial profiles from HBV-induced tumors, and different microbes are clinically relevant in each cohort, suggesting that the effects of the liver microbiome may be different in response to different etiological factors. Collectively, our data suggest that HBV and alcohol operate within a normally oncogenic microbiome to promote tumor development, but are also able to downregulate certain oncogenic microbes. Insight into why these microbes are downregulated following exposure to HBV or alcohol, and why the majority of oncogenic microbes are not downregulated, may be critical for understanding whether a pro-tumor liver microbiome could be suppressed or reversed to limit cancer progression.
TCGA; alcohol; hepatitis B; hepatocellular carcinoma; microbiome.
