32570707
2020 Jun 18
Radiotherapy often causes unwanted side effects such as radiation-induced fibrosis and second malignancies. Fucoidan, a sulfated polysaccharide extracted from brown seaweed, has many biological effects including anti-inflammation and anti-tumor. In the present study, we investigated the radioprotective effect of Oligo-Fucoidan (OF) using a zebrafish animal model. Adult zebrafish of wild-type and transgenic fish with hepatocellular carcinoma were orally fed with Oligo-Fucoidan before irradiation. Quantitative PCR, Sirius red stain, hematoxylin, and eosin stain were used for molecular and pathological analysis. Whole genomic microarrays were used to discover the global program of gene expression after Oligo-Fucoidan treatment and identified distinct classes of up- and downregulated genes/pathways during this process. Using Oligo-Fucoidan oral gavage in adult wild-type zebrafish, we found Oligo-Fucoidan pretreatment decreased irradiation-induced fibrosis in hepatocyte. Using hepatitis B virus X antigen (HBx), Src and HBx, Src, p53-/+ transgenic zebrafish liver cancer model, we found that Oligo-Fucoidan pretreatment before irradiation could lower the expression of lipogenic factors and enzymes, fibrosis, and cell cycle/proliferation markers, which eventually reduced formation of liver cancer compared to irradiation alone. Gene ontology analysis revealed that Oligo-Fucoidan pretreatment increased the expression of genes involved in oxidoreductase activity in zebrafish irradiation. Oligo-Fucoidan also decreased the expression of genes involved in transferase activity in wild-type fish without irradiation (WT), nuclear outer membrane-endoplasmic reticulum membrane network, and non-homologous end-joining (NHEJ) in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) transgenic fish. Rescue of those genes can prevent liver cancer formation. Conclusions: Our results provide evidence for the ability of Oligo-Fucoidan to prevent radiation-induced fibrosis and second malignancies in zebrafish.
Oligo-Fucoidan; radiation-induced fibrosis; radiation-induced secondary malignancy; zebrafish.
