32588344
2020 Jun 25.</span
Background:Hepatectomy or transplantation can serve as curative treatment for early-stage hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Unfortunately, as progression remains a reality, locoregional therapies (LRT) for curative or bridging intent have become common. Efficacy on viability, outcomes, and accuracy of imaging should be defined to guide treatment.Methods:Patients with HCC who underwent minimally invasive (MIS) microwave ablation (MWA), transarterial chemoembolization (TACE), or both (MIS-MWA-TACE) prior to hepatectomy or transplantation were identified. Tumor response and preoperative computed tomography (CT) accuracy were assessed and compared to pathology. Clinical and oncologic outcomes were compared between MIS-MWA, TACE, and MIS-MWA-TACE.Results:Ninety-one patients, with tumors from all stages of the Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer (BCLC) staging, were identified who underwent LRT prior to resection or transplant. Fourteen patients underwent MIS-MWA, 46 underwent TACE, and 31 underwent both neoadjuvantly. TACE population was older; otherwise, there were no differences in demographics. Fifty-seven percent of MIS-MWA patients had no viable tumor on pathology whereas only 13% of TACE patients and 29% of MIS-MWA-TACE patients had complete destruction (p = 0.004). The amount of remaining viable tumor in the explant was also significantly different between groups (MIS-MWA: 17.2%, TACE: 48.7%, MIS-MWA-TACE: 18.6%; p ≤ 0.0001). Compared with TACE, the MIS-MWA and MIS-MWA-TACE groups had significantly improved overall survival (MIS-MWA: 99.94 months, TACE: 75.35 months, MIS-MWA-TACE: 140 months; p = 0.017). This survival remained significant with stratification by tumor size. CT accuracy was found to be 50% sensitive and 86% specific for MIS-MWA. For TACE, CT had an 82% sensitivity and 33% specificity and for MIS-MWA-TACE, there was a 42% sensitivity and 78% specificity.Conclusion:The impact of locoregional treatments on tumor viability is distinct and superior with MIS-MWA alone and MIS-MWA-TACE offering significant advantage over TACE alone. The extent of this effect may be implicated in the improved overall survival.
Bridging treatment; Hepatic resection; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Locoregional treatment; Microwave ablation; Minimally invasive; Transarterial chemoembolization; Transplant.
