32626758
2020 Jun 10
Viral hepatitis B is a global public health problem affecting nearly two billion subjects; 3.3% of whom are from the WHO (World Health Organization) Eastern Mediterranean Region (EMRO). It induces both acute and chronic hepatic disorders with subsequent liver cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in a considerable percentage of patients based on the age of exposure. In this review, hepatitis B virus (HBV) and HCC prevalence, distribution and prevalence of different genotypes, and male/female infection frequencies in relation to the vaccination status in the Mediterranean countries were reported. Study Design. This systematic review describes the prevalence of hepatitis B infection, genotype distribution of hepatitis B virus, and prevalence and incidence of hepatocellular carcinoma in Mediterranean countries belonging to three different continents: Southern Europe (Spain, France, Italy, Croatia, and Greece), North Africa (Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia, Libya, and Egypt), and the Near East region (Syria, Lebanon, Turkey, Israel, and Palestine). We tried to collect new data from electronic databases: PubMed, ScienceDirect, ResearchGate, Google Scholar, and public health reports between 1980 and 2019. For each publication, we recorded reference, publication year, study characteristics (date, locations, sample size, and study population), and participant characteristics (population group, year, age, and sex). No language limitation was imposed, and articles or reports from non-peer-reviewed sources were not considered for this analysis. The main keywords were HBV prevalence, hepatitis B infection, HBV genotype, and HCC. Inclusion and Exclusion Criteria. Healthy population-based studies included the following sample populations: (i) voluntary blood donors, (ii) pregnant women, (iii) community studies, (iv) hemodialysis patients, (v) hospitalized patients, (vi) healthcare workers, (vii) sex workers, (viii) drug abusers, and (ix) prisoners. We excluded studies from the following special groups who were assumed to be at a special high risk: patients from sexually transmitted disease clinics and thalassemia clinics and professional or paid blood donors.

