32636661
2020 Jun 29
Background:Adropin is a secreted polypeptide that has been demonstrated to play an important role in energy homeostasis and lipid metabolism. Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) may promote the transcription of target genes including adropin. In the current study, we investigated the effect of adropin on glucose metabolism in diabetic rats and the mechanism that governs this effect was subsequently assessed.Materials and methods:Rats received a single injection of streptozotocin to induce type 1 diabetes. The diabetic rats were treated with insulin or phloridzin, another antidiabetic agent through inhibition of glucose reabsorption, for 7 days. Plasma glucose levels and adropin levels were measured. The interaction between STAT3 and adropin was evaluated using the human hepatoma HepG2 cell line. HepG2 cells were pretreated with the specific antagonist Stattic or with STAT3-specific siRNAs to knockout STAT3. Changes in energy homeostasis-associated gene expression were measured using real-time PCR. The protein expression levels of pSTAT3 and STAT3 were measured using Western blotting.Results:In diabetic rats, the serum concentrations of adropin were increased in the vehicle-treated group and decreased in the insulin- or phloridzin-treated group. In liver tissues, the Enho expression level and the activity of STAT3 also showed similar tendencies. After HepG2 cells were treated with medium containing high glucose, the ratio of p-STAT3 to STAT3, Enho mRNA levels and reactive oxygen species expression levels in HepG2 cells were significantly increased in conjunction with increased glucose levels. The effect was inhibited after pretreatment with Stattic or knockdown with STAT3-specific siRNAs.Conclusion:STAT3 is involved in the genetic regulation of adropin, increasing the levels of circulating adropin and promoting Enho expression in the livers of diabetic rats.
Enho gene; STAT3; adropin; reactive oxygen species; type 1 diabetes.
