32647631
2020 Jun
Objective:The aim of this study was to evaluate the performance of pretreatment computed tomography (CT) enhancement of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) as a potential predictor of response to lenvatinib and its relevance to survival outcomes.Methods:We evaluated 51 consecutive patients who received lenvatinib treatment for unresectable HCC. On imaging analysis, pretreatment arterial/portal phase dynamic CT images were classified as follows: type 2, homogeneous enhancement pattern with increased arterial blood flow; type 3, heterogeneous enhancement pattern with a septum-like structure; and type 4, heterogeneous enhancement pattern with irregularly shaped ring structures. Treatment response was evaluated using modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors at 2-12 weeks after initiation of lenvatinib, and the correlations between the CT enhancement patterns and response to lenvatinib or survival outcomes were investigated.Results:Of the 51 patients, 38 (75%) experienced an objective response (OR). ORs were significantly more common in heterogeneously enhanced HCC (types 3 and 4) than in homogeneous HCC (type 2) (83 vs. 53%, respectively; p = 0.037). Multivariate analysis revealed that pretreatment heterogeneous enhancement pattern is an independent predictor for response to lenvatinib (odds ratio, 4.75; p = 0.042). Presence of OR was associated with longer progression-free survival (PFS) (hazard ratio, 0.36; p = 0.017), and patients with oncologically aggressive type 3 and 4 tumors showed similar PFS to those harboring type 2 tumors (p = 0.455), reflecting that OR was more common in type 3 or 4 tumors compared with type 2 tumors. Although postprogression survival was extremely poor in patients with type 4 tumors (p = 0.064), overall survival after introduction of lenvatinib was not statistically different among the three groups of patients (p = 0.053).Conclusion:The CT enhancement pattern of HCC may predict response to lenvatinib. OR seems to occur more frequently in HCC with oncologically aggressive features and may contribute to prolonged survival through a prolonged progression-free interval, even in an oncologically poor-risk group of patients.
Computed tomography; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Lenvatinib; Malignant potential; Poorly-differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma.
