32670354
2020 Jun 25
Objectives: The occurrence of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a complex process involving genetic mutations, epigenetic variation, and abnormal gene expression. However, a comprehensive multiomics investigation of HCC is lacking, and the available multiomics evidence has not led to improvements in clinical practice. Therefore, we explored the molecular mechanism underlying the development of HCC through an integrative analysis of multiomics data obtained at multiple levels to provide innovative perspectives and a new theoretical basis for the early diagnosis, personalized treatment and medical guidance of HCC. Methods: In this study, we collected whole-exome sequencing data, RNA (mRNA and miRNA) sequencing data, DNA methylation array data, and single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) array data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA). We analyzed the copy number variation (CNV) in HCC using GISTIC2. MutSigCV was applied to identify significantly mutated genes (SMGs). Functional enrichment analyses were performed using the clusterProfiler package in R software. The prognostic values of discrete variables were estimated using Kaplan-Meier survival curves. Results: By analyzing the HCC data in TCGA, we constructed a comprehensive multiomics map of HCC. Through copy number analysis, we identified significant amplification at 29 loci and significant deletions at 33 loci. A total of 13 significant mutant genes were identified. In addition, we also identified three HCC-related mutant signatures, and among these, signature 22 was closely related to exposure to aristolochic acids. Subsequently, we analyzed the methylation level of HCC samples and identified 51 epigenetically silenced genes that were significantly associated with methylation. The differential expression analysis identified differentially expressed mRNAs and miRNAs in HCC samples. Based on the above-described results, we identified a total of 93 possible HCC driver genes, which are driven by mutations, methylation, and CNVs and have prognostic value. Conclusion: Our study reveals variations in different dimensions of HCC. We performed an integrative analysis of genomic signatures, single nucleotide variants (SNVs), CNVs, methylation, and gene expression in HCC. Based on the results, we identified HCC possible driver genes that might facilitate prognostic prediction and support decision making with regard to the choice of therapy.
APOBEC; driver genes; hepatocellular carcinoma; methylation; multiomics; mutational signatures.
