32742570
2020 Jun 27
Background:Delta hepatitis is a rare infection with an aggressive disease course. For almost three decades, however, there have been no epidemiological studies in our traditionally endemic area.Aim:To investigate the prevalence of delta hepatitis in a sample of patients with chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection followed at a Hepatology Unit in Valencia, Spain.Methods:Retrospective evaluation of anti-hepatitis D virus-immunoglobulin G seroprevalence among patients with chronic HBV infection (n = 605) followed at a reference Hepatology Unit in Spain.Results:The prevalence of anti-hepatitis D virus-immunoglobulin G among HBV-infected patients was 11.5%: Male (63%) and median age of 52 years. The majority were born in Spain (67%) and primarily infected through intravenous drug use. However, a significant percent (24.5%), particularly those diagnosed in more recent years, were migrants presumably nosocomially infected. Comorbidities such as diabetes (8.5%), obesity/overweight (55%), and alcohol consumption (34%) were frequent. A high proportion of patients developed liver complications such as cirrhosis (77%), liver decompensation (81%), hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) (16.5%), or required liver transplantation (LT) (59.5%). Diabetes was associated with progression to cirrhosis, LT, and death. Male sex, increasing age, and alcohol were associated with LT and HCC. Compared to HBV mono-infected patients, delta individuals developed cirrhosis and liver decompensation more frequently, with no differences in HCC rates.Conclusion:Patients infected in the 1980's were mostly locals infected through intravenous drug use, whereas those diagnosed recently are frequently non-Spanish natives from endemic areas. Regardless of their origin, patients are predominantly male with significant comorbidities, which potentially play a major role in disease progression. We confirm a high rate of subsequent liver complications.
Cirrhosis; Delta hepatitis; Immigration; Liver transplantation; Valencia; Viral hepatitis.
