26139079
2015 Aug
Background:Epithelioid inflammatory myofibroblastic sarcoma (E-IMS) is a recently established rare variant of inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor. It is characterized by a distinctive constellation of clinical, pathological, and molecular features, including a nearly exclusive intraabdominal location, strong male predilection, aggressive clinical course, predominance of epithelioid tumor cells, and Ran-binding protein 2 (RANBP2)-anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) fusion in the majority of cases. To the authors' knowledge, the cytologic features of E-IMS have not been described to date.Methods:Cases of E-IMS that had corresponding cytology were searched. Six cytology samples (1 fine-needle aspiration sample, 2 imprint samples, and 3 effusion fluids) containing tumor cells were identified in 5 patients with E-IMS.Results:The cytomorphology included large monotonous epithelioid cells arranged in loose aggregates or singly, with admixed myxoid stroma, and an inflammatory background rich in neutrophils. The tumor cells had a large, round, eccentric nucleus with vesicular chromatin, prominent nucleoli, and moderate amounts of pale cytoplasm. Delicate thin-walled branching vessels traversing tumor aggregates was a prominent feature in a fine-needle aspiration sample. Immunohistochemically, ALK was positive in all 5 tumors, with a nuclear membranous staining pattern noted in 3 cases and a cytoplasmic pattern observed in the other 2 cases. ALK rearrangement was confirmed in all 5 tumors by molecular genetic studies.Conclusions:The cytologic features of E-IMS recapitulate its histologic characteristics. E-IMS merits inclusion in the differential diagnosis of any intraabdominal, large epithelioid cell neoplasm. Confirmation of ALK rearrangement is advisable because patients may benefit from targeted therapies.
RANBP2 (Ran-binding protein 2)-ALK; anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK); cytology; epithelioid; fine-needle aspiration; inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor; sarcoma.
