31573893
2020
Background:Chronic Hepatitis C (CHC) is a common progressive healthcare challenge that leads to liver cirrhosis, liver failure, and hepatocellular carcinoma. The optimum therapy was a combination of pegylated interferon and ribavirin, which was associated with moderate response and severe side effects. Sofosbuvir revolutionized CHC treatment, especially in combination with other antiviral agents.Objective:The aim of this study was to compare and evaluate the safety and efficacy of sofosbuvir/ daclatasvir versus sofosbuvir/ledipasvir for the treatment of non-cirrhotic naïve patients with chronic Hepatitis C Virus (HCV) genotype 4 infection for 12 weeks.Methods:One hundred CHC genotype 4 patients (70 females, 30 males) were recruited from the hepatology clinic at the Beni-Suef general hospital. Patients were randomly allocated into two groups that received a 12 weeks treatment of either sofosbuvir 400 mg/daclatasvir 60 mg or sofosbuvir 400 mg/ledipasvir 90 mg. The sustained virological response 12 weeks post-treatment (SVR12) (HCV RNA Results:SVR12 was achieved by 98% and 96% of patients receiving sofosbuvir plus ledipasvir and sofosbuvir plus daclatasvir, respectively. The most common adverse events reported were headache, and fatigue. No patients discontinued treatment due to adverse events.Conclusion:The findings from this study suggest that the 12 weeks treatment regimens of sofosbuvir plus daclatasvir and sofosbuvir plus ledipasvir were both efficacious and well-tolerated in patients with HCV genotype 4 infection. Impact on Practice: In this paper, we report on the most recent approaches in the treatment of Hepatitis C genotype 4 patients in Egypt. This is significant because this article focuses on comparing the efficacy and tolerability of the most commonly used antiviral drugs in Egypt.
Hepatitis C; adverse effects; daclatasvir/sofosbuvir; ledipasvir/sofosbuvir; lower limit of quantification; polymerase chain reaction; sustained virological response..
