31741333
2020
Hepatitis B virus (HBV) is a major human pathogen lacking a reliable curative therapy. Current therapeutics target the viral reverse transcriptase/DNA polymerase to inhibit viral replication but generally fail to resolve chronic HBV infections. Due to the limited coding potential of the HBV genome, alternative approaches for the treatment of chronic infections are desperately needed. An alternative approach to the development of antiviral therapeutics is to target cellular gene products that are critical to the viral life cycle. As transcription of the viral genome is an essential step in the viral life cycle, the selective inhibition of viral RNA synthesis is a possible approach for the development of additional therapeutic modalities that might be used in combination with currently available therapies. To address this possibility, a molecular understanding of the relationship between viral transcription and replication is required. The first step is to identify the transcription factors that are the most critical in controlling the levels of HBV RNA synthesis and to determine their in vivo role in viral biosynthesis. Mapping studies in cell culture utilizing reporter gene constructs permitted the identification of both ubiquitous and liver-enriched transcription factors capable of modulating transcription from the four HBV promoters. However, it was challenging to determine their relative importance for viral biosynthesis in the available human hepatoma replication systems. This technical limitation was addressed, in part, by the development of non-hepatoma HBV replication systems where viral biosynthesis was dependent on complementation with exogenously expressed transcription factors. These systems revealed the importance of specific nuclear receptors and hepatocyte nuclear factor 3 (HNF3)/forkhead box A (FoxA) transcription factors for HBV biosynthesis. Furthermore, using the HBV transgenic mouse model of chronic viral infection, the importance of various nuclear receptors and FoxA isoforms could be established in vivo. The availability of this combination of systems now permits a rational approach toward the development of selective host transcription factor inhibitors. This might permit the development of a new class of therapeutics to aid in the treatment and resolution of chronic HBV infections, which currently affects approximately 1 in 30 individuals worldwide and kills up to a million people annually.

