32683878
Spring 2020
Purpose:Identification of prognostic survival factors of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) treated with transarterial chemoembolization (TACE) in a single center in 2005-2018.Background:Transarterial chemoembolization in hepatocellular carcinoma is indicated in Barcelona Liver Cancer Clinic (BLCC) stage B. This stage includes a very large group of patients unsuitable for curative treatment, who are in a good clinical condition and do not show extra-hepatic spread. The aim of this retrospective analysis is to identify factors influencing patient survival and to divide the patients into subgroups based on these risk factors.Materials and methods:All patients with HCC indicated for TACE in complex oncological center in 2005-2018 were included in the analysis. The survival rates from the 1st TACE were evaluated in relation to HCC on computed tomography/magnetic resonance prior to the 1st TACE (size of the biggest lesion, single/multiple lesions, unilobar/bilobar involvement), presence and severity of liver disease (cirrhosis, Child-Pugh, portal vein thrombosis) and a combination of other invasive treatment (resection, percutaneous ablation) (single and multivariate analysis). The survival of HCC patients was compared according to the year of the dia-gnosis and the year of the 1st TACE (log-rank test).Results:Out of 382 patients, 157 (29 women) of them were treated with TACE (540 TACEs in total, median 3 TACEs per patient). The most important risk factors for survival were the presence of portal vein thrombosis (hazard ratio (HR) = 3.279), bilobar involvement (HR = 2.257), lesion size (HR = 1.125/cm) and Child-Pugh B in chronic liver disease (HR = 1.922). Based on these risk factors, the patients were divided into 3 prognostic groups with different median survival (52.1 vs. 21.5 vs. 9.0 months).Conclusion:Based on the retrospective analysis, predictive factors of HCC survival after TACE were identified and the patients were divided into 3 prognostic groups based on these factors.
hepatocellular carcinoma; risk factors; survival analysis; transarterial chemoembolization.
