32715976
Jan-Dec 2020
Background:Cancer-testis genes can serve as prognostic biomarkers and valuable targets for immunotherapy in multiple tumors because of their restricted expression in testis and cancer. However, their expression pattern in hepatocellular carcinoma is still not well understood. The purpose is to comprehensively characterize the cancer-testis gene expression in hepatocellular carcinoma as well as identify prognostic markers and potential targets for immunotherapy.Methods:Cancer-testis database and publicly available data sets reporting new cancer-testis genes were integrated, and then restricted them in a testis and hepatocellular carcinoma expression pattern. Pathway enrichment analysis and survival analysis were conducted to evaluate the biological function and prognostic effect of cancer-testis genes. Clustering analysis and coexpression analysis were performed to illustrate cancer-testis gene expression patterns in hepatocellular carcinoma. The association of gene expression of each cancer-testis gene to the corresponding methylation status was detected. Finally, we explored the associations between cancer-testis genes and CD8+ T-cell infiltration in hepatocellular carcinoma by TISIDB, and then validated it in an independent hepatocellular carcinoma cohort with 72 patients.Results:A total of 59 testis-specific genes were identified highly expressed in hepatocellular carcinoma. Pathway enrichment analysis revealed that cancer-testis genes in hepatocellular carcinoma significantly involves in the process of cell cycle regulation. Most of the cancer-testis genes were coexpressed, and cluster analysis suggested that cancer-testis gene expressed in hepatocellular carcinoma is independent of sex, hepatitis status, and histology type. We also found that demethylation might be a regulatory mechanism of cancer-testis gene expression in hepatocellular carcinoma. Survival analysis indicated that cancer-testis genes could predict the prognosis of patients with hepatocellular carcinoma. Furthermore, BUB1B was identified contributing to the resistance of CD8+ T-cell infiltration in hepatocellular carcinoma and was an independent prognostic factor both for overall survival and disease-free survival.Conclusions:Our analysis enables better understanding of cancer-testis genes in hepatocellular carcinoma and provides potential targets for hepatocellular carcinoma treatment. Experimental and clinical studies are needed for further validations.
bioinformatics; cancer-testis genes; hepatocellular carcinoma; immunotherapy; prognostic marker.
