33213164
Fall 2020
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the major complications of chronic liver disease, mostly of liver cirrhosis. Liver diseases from different causes differ in the risks of HCC development. Different mechanisms of carcinogenesis are involved in HCC development in different liver diseases as well. Generally, two main pathways are distinguished: the cause of liver disease itself (e.g. viral infections, accumulation of heavy metals etc.) and chronic liver inflammation and fibrogenesis, including mechanisms of oxidative stress. Rare cases of HCC in liver without underlying cirrhosis are likely the consequences of the mechanisms directly linked with particular etiological factor (e.g. protein X in chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection). The key approach which can lead to significantly better results of any treatment used in HCC cases is HCC screening and surveillance. The appropriate method of HCC surveillance is abdominal ultrasonography in 6-month intervals. There is still one question to be solved: the correct definition of target population which should undergo this method of surveillance. Currently, the target population in the developed world is defined as all patients with liver cirrhosis. Unfortunately, the only method of primary prevention of HCC is available: universal HBV vaccination. Antiviral treatment of hepatitis B or C is considered as a method of secondary prevention. Adjuvant therapy of HCC after its primary therapy (antiviral therapy after HCC resection etc.) and other measures able to reduce HCC recurrence risk are usually mentioned as tertiary prevention approach. The BCLC staging system is the most common system used in Europe for the classification of HCC at the dia-gnosis. This classification combines the stage of HCC itself with other parameters, such as liver disease severity (Child - Pugh classification), portal hypertension etc. BCLC is a system which guides the physicians to optimal treatment options in every HCC stage. The only potentially curable approaches are surgical resection or liver transplantation. These options may be used in 1/3 of all HCC patients. Unfortunately, the vast majority of HCC patients can be treated only by palliative treatment options with transarterial chemoembolisation being the most common one.
chronic hepatitis B; chronic hepatitis C; hepatocellular carcinoma; non-alcoholic steatohepatitis.
