30703823
2019 Aug
Goal:In order to ensure high-quality cooperation between referring physicians and imaging services, it is important to assess the quality of imaging services as perceived by referring physicians. The present study aimed to develop and validate a questionnaire for referring physicians to assess the quality of outpatient diagnostic imaging services.Materials & methods:The questionnaire was developed by discussing and modifying an existing instrument by the German Association of Surgeons. After qualitative pretesting, the instrument was tested with physicians referring to four outpatient diagnostic imaging services in Switzerland. The results were first assessed using descriptive statistics. The final instrument was tested for validity using the concept of known-groups validity. The hypothesis underlying this procedure was that physicians referring frequently to services estimated the quality of these services to be higher than physicians who referred less often to services. The differences in ratings were assessed using a one-sided two-sample Wilcoxon test. The final questionnaire was tested for internal consistency and reliability using Cronbach's Alpha.Results:Results show a high level of satisfaction of referring physicians with the relevant services but also potential for quality improvement initiatives. The psychometric evaluation of the final questionnaire shows that it is a valid instrument, showing significant differences between the ratings of physicians referring with high and low frequency. Furthermore, the instrument proves to be consistent and reliable.Conclusion:The final instrument presents a valid, consistent and reliable option for assess the quality of outpatient diagnostic imaging services as perceived by referring physicians. Results can be used as a basis for quality improvement.Key points:· A newly developed questionnaire assesses the quality of outpatient diagnostic imaging services as perceived by referring physicians. The questionnaire was developed and tested in Switzerland.. · Psychometric evaluation showed the questionnaire to be a valid, consistent and reliable instrument.. · Results are of interest for imaging services as well as for initiatives encompassing several services..Citation format:· Jossen M, Valeri F, Heilmaier C et al. Referring Physicians Assess the Quality of Outpatient Diagnostic Imaging Services: Development and Psychometric Evaluation of a Questionnaire. Fortschr Röntgenstr 2019; 191: 725 - 731.

