31127007
2019 Aug
P-glycoprotein (P-gp) is a multidrug transporter that is expressed on the luminal surface of epithelial cells in the kidney, intestine, bile-canalicular membrane in the liver, blood-brain barrier, and adrenal gland. This transporter uses energy of ATP hydrolysis to efflux from cells a variety of structurally dissimilar hydrophobic and amphipathic compounds, including anticancer drugs. In this regard, understanding the interaction with P-gp of drug entities in development is important and highly recommended in current US Food and Drug Administration guidelines. Here we tested the P-gp interaction of some A3 adenosine receptor agonists that are being developed for the treatment of chronic diseases, including rheumatoid arthritis, psoriasis, chronic pain, and hepatocellular carcinoma. Biochemical assays of the ATPase activity of P-gp and by photolabeling P-gp with its transport substrate [125I]-iodoarylazidoprazosin led to the identification of rigidified (N)-methanocarba nucleosides (i.e., compound 3 as a stimulator and compound 8 as a partial inhibitor of P-gp ATPase activity). Compound 8 significantly inhibited boron-dipyrromethene (BODIPY)-verapamil transport mediated by human P-gp (IC50 2.4 ± 0.6 µM); however, the BODIPY-conjugated derivative of 8 (compound 24) was not transported by P-gp. In silico docking of compounds 3 and 8 was performed using the recently solved atomic structure of paclitaxel (Taxol)-bound human P-gp. Molecular modeling studies revealed that both compounds 3 and 8 bind in the same region of the drug-binding pocket as Taxol. Thus, this study indicates that nucleoside derivatives can exhibit varied modulatory effects on P-gp activity, depending on structural functionalization. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: Certain A3 adenosine receptor agonists are being developed for the treatment of chronic diseases. The goal of this study was to test the interaction of these agonists with the human multidrug resistance-linked transporter P-glycoprotein (P-gp). ATPase and photolabeling assays demonstrated that compounds with rigidified (N)-methanocarba nucleosides inhibit the activity of P-gp; however, a fluorescent derivative of one of the compounds was not transported by P-gp. Furthermore, molecular docking studies revealed that the binding site for these compounds overlaps with the site for paclitaxel in the drug-binding pocket. These results suggest that nucleoside derivatives, depending on structural functionalization, can modulate the function of P-gp.

