31127021
2019 Aug
Background:The long-term prognosis after liver resection for multinodular (≥3 nodules) hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is generally considered to be unfavorable. However, the role of liver resection for binodular HCC is less investigated.Subjects, materials, and methods:From a multicenter database, consecutive patients who underwent curative-intent liver resection for binodular HCC and without macrovascular invasion between 2003 and 2015 were retrospectively reviewed. Patients' clinical variables as well as perioperative and long-term survival outcomes were analyzed. Univariable and multivariable analyses were performed to identify the risk factors associated with overall survival (OS) and recurrence-free survival (RFS) after curative resection.Results:Of 263 enrolled patients, the perioperative 30-day mortality and morbidity rates were 1.5% and 28.5%. The 1-, 3-, and 5-year OS and RFS rates were 81.5%, 52.4%, and 39.1% and 57.1%, 35.8%, and 26.6%, respectively. Multivariable Cox-regression analyses identified preoperative alpha-fetoprotein level >400 μg/L, tumor size with a sum of two nodules >8 cm, tumor size ratio of large/small nodule >1.5 (asymmetrical proportion), unilateral hemiliver distribution of two nodules, distance of ≤3 cm between two nodules, and microvascular invasion in any nodule as independent risk factors associated with decreased OS and RFS.Conclusion:Liver resection was safe and feasible in patients with binodular HCC, with acceptable perioperative and long-term outcomes. Sum of two tumor sizes, size ratio and distribution, and distance between two nodules were independent risk factors associated with long-term survival outcomes after surgery. These results may guide clinicians to make individualized surgical decisions and estimate long-term prognosis for these patients.Implications for practice:Liver resection was safe and feasible in patients with binodular hepatocellular carcinoma, with acceptable perioperative and long-term outcomes. The sum of two tumor sizes, the size ratio and distribution of the two nodules, and the distance between two nodules were independent risk factors associated with long-term overall survival and recurrence-free survival after liver resection. The results of this study may guide clinicians to make individualized surgical decisions, estimate long-term prognosis, and plan recurrence surveillance and adjuvant therapy for these patients.
Hepatectomy; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Intrahepatic metastasis; Multicentric origin; Overall survival; Recurrence‐free survival.
