31363373
2019 Aug
An accumulation of evidence has demonstrated that abnormal microRNA (miRNA or miR) expression is associated with different types of cancer, including endometrial cancer (EC). The dysregulation of miRNAs may serve important roles in the development and progression of EC by regulating multiple aggressive biological behaviors, including cell proliferation, apoptosis, metastasis and angiogenesis. An in-depth understanding of the miRNAs associated with EC initiation and progression may be crucial for identifying successful therapeutic techniques. miR-873 has been demonstrated to be dysregulated in different types of cancer. However, the expression status and regulatory roles of miR-873 are yet to be elucidated in EC. In the present study, reverse transcription-quantitative PCR was carried out to detect miR-873 expression in EC tissues and cell lines. Cell Counting Kit-8 and in vitro invasion assays were utilized to determine the influence of miR-873 on the proliferation and invasion of EC cells. miR-873 expression was revealed to be downregulated in EC tissues and cell lines. Decreased miR-873 expression was significantly associated with International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics stage and lymph node metastasis of patients with EC. Functional assays revealed that resumed miR-873 expression suppressed the proliferation and invasion of EC cells. Additionally, hepatoma-derived growth factor (HDGF) was indicated to be a direct target gene of miR-873 in EC cells. HDGF was highly expressed in EC tissues and inversely correlated with miR-873 expression. HDGF silencing also imitated the tumor-suppressor activity of miR-873 overexpression in EC cells. A series of rescue experiments identified that recovered HDGF expression hindered the anti-proliferative and anti-invasive roles of miR-873 upregulation in EC cells. In conclusion, the present study indicated that miR-873 serves an important role as a tumor suppressor in EC development by directly targeting HDGF. The results may provide a novel insight into clinical treatments, which can be used to prevent EC aggression.
endometrial cancer; hepatoma-derived growth factor; invasion; microRNA-873; proliferation.
