31675174
2020 Aug
Background:Preoperative estimation of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) recurrence after conventional transcatheter arterial chemoembolization (c-TACE) is crucial for subsequent follow-up and therapy decisions.Purpose:To evaluate the associations of radiomics models based on pretreatment contrast-enhanced MRI, a clinical-radiological model and a combined model with the recurrence-free survival (RFS) of patients with HCC after c-TACE, and to develop a radiomics nomogram for individual RFS estimations and risk stratification.Study type:Retrospective.Population:In all, 184 consecutive HCC patients.Field strength/sequence:1.5T or 3.0T, including T2 WI, T1 WI, and contrast-enhanced T1 WI.Assessment:All HCC patients were randomly divided into the training (n = 110) and validation datasets (n = 74). Radiomics signatures capturing intratumoral and peritumoral expansion (1, 3, and 5 mm) were constructed, and the radiomics models were set up using least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) Cox regression. Clinical-radiological features were identified by univariate and multivariate Cox regression. The clinical-radiological model and the combined model fusing the radiomics signature with the clinical-radiological risk factors were developed by a multivariate Cox proportional hazard model. A radiomics nomogram derived from the combined model was established.Statistical tests:LASSO Cox regression, univariate and multivariate Cox regression, Kaplan-Meier analysis were performed. The discrimination performance of each model was quantified by the C-index.Results:Among the different peritumoral expansion models, only the 3-mm peritumoral expansion model (C-index, 0.714) showed a comparable performance (P = 0.4087) to that of the portal venous phase intratumoral model (C-index, 0.727). The combined model showed the best performance and the C-index was 0.802. Kaplan-Meier analysis showed that the cutoff values of the combined model relative to a median value (1.7426) perfectly stratified these patients into high-risk and low-risk subgroups.Data conclusion:The combined model is more valuable than the clinical-radiological model or radiomics model alone for evaluating the RFS of HCC patients after c-TACE, and the radiomics nomogram can be used to preoperatively and individually estimate RFS.Level of evidence:3 Technical Efficacy Stage: 4 J. Magn. Reson. Imaging 2020;52:461-473.
hepatocellular carcinoma; radiomics nomogram; recurrence-free survival; transcatheter arterial chemoembolization.
