19843294
2010 Mar 1
About 20% of the patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) who are listed for liver transplantation (LT) are eventually delisted as a result of local tumor progression. Herein, we report our experience with conformal radiotherapy (CRT) as a novel bridge to LT. From July 2006 to August 2008, CRT was delivered in five or six fractions to patients with HCC listed for LT in whom either prior local therapies had failed or those not suitable for standard local therapies because of poor liver function or anatomic issues. Radiotherapy (RT) volumes and doses were individualized to spare the uninvolved liver with the goal of stabilizing the most aggressive HCC(s) in an attempt to reduce the chance of delisting as a result of tumor progression. Ten patients with tumor diameters ranging from 25 to 108 mm were treated. Eight out of 10 tumors were beyond Milan criteria. The median age was 55 (range 36-64). Seventy percent of the patients were male subjects. The median medical MELD score was 11 (range 9-17). The median irradiated HCC volume was 79 cc (range 15-798 cc). The median RT delivered dose was 33 Gy (range 8.5-54 Gy), in one to six fractions. The median dose to the uninvolved liver was 13.3 Gy (range 1.8-16.5). Nine patients completed their CRT as planned and one patient was transplanted after the first fraction. The treatment was well tolerated: Grade 1 nausea was reported in three patients, the platelet count decreased from 154 to 98 in one patient, and there were no other complications. No treated tumors progressed during or after the treatment. Two tumors remained stable; the rest had 10-50% regression, which was sustained on follow-up imaging. The median follow up was 14 months (range 3-20). Local tumor control was achieved in all treated tumors.Two patients were delisted as a result of cancer progression outside the treated field (one in the context of systemic metastases; yet another with progression of other untreated HCC in the liver). Three patients are still waiting for transplantation. Five patients underwent LT with no complications attributable to the CRT. Explant pathology, available for five patients, showed tumor necrosis and fibrosis with sparing of the untreated parenchyma. All transplanted patients treated with CRT are cancer-free. CRT is a safe and efficacious local bridging therapy for patients with advanced HCC who are on the waiting list for LT. Further studies are warranted to compare the effectiveness of CRT to other local treatment regimens for HCC.

