20079722
2010 Mar 30
Steatosis is the first step in the development of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). However, the mechanisms involved in its pathogenesis are not fully understood. Many nuclear receptors (NRs) involved in energy homeostasis and biotransformation constitute a network connecting fatty acids, cholesterol and xenobiotic metabolisms; therefore, multiple NRs and their ligands may play a prominent role in liver fat metabolism and accumulation. In this study we have attempted to gain insight into the relevance of the NR superfamily in NAFLD by investigating the steatogenic potential of 76 different NR ligands in fatty acid overloaded human hepatocytes and hepatoma cells. Moreover, we have determined the mRNA expression level of 24 NRs to correlate the steatogenic potential of the ligands with the expression of their associated NRs in the cultured cells. Our results demonstrate that 18% of the examined NR ligands enhanced lipid accumulation in human hepatocytes and/or hepatoma cells. Among them, ligands of PPARgamma (e.g., thiazolidinediones), LXR (paxilline and 24(S),25-epoxycholesterol), PXR (hyperforin), CAR (3alpha,5alpha-androstenol), ERalpha (tamoxifen), FXR (Z-guggulsterone), VDR (25-hydroxyvitamin D3) and particular retinoids and farnesoids showed a significant pro-steatotic effect. The mRNA level of most of the NRs examined was well preserved in human hepatocytes, but HepG2 showed a deranged profile, where many of the receptors had a marginal or negligible level of expression in comparison with the human liver. By comparing the steatogenic effect of NR ligands with the NR expression levels, we conclude that LXR, PXR, RAR and PPARgamma ligands likely induce fat accumulation by a NR-dependent mechanism. Indeed, over-expression of PXR in HepG2 cells enhanced the steatogenic effect of hyperforin and rifampicin. However, the accumulation of fat induced by other ligands did not correlate with the expression of their associated NR. Our results also suggest that human hepatocytes cultured with free fatty acids offer a highly valuable in vitro system to investigate the pathogenesis and therapeutics of the human fatty liver.

