20133223
2010 Feb
Background:As a radical cure for post-hepatitis B virus (HBV)-related liver cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma, liver transplantation has been applied in many medical centers. Before the use of effective measures, hepatitis B recurrence and the existence of HBsAg(+) donors, patients with hepatitis B-related diseases are contraindicated for liver transplantation. Application of interferon, hepatitis B immunoglobulin (HBIG), and nucleotide analogues (e.g., lamivudine) has made great progress in the clinical care of HBV. However, there are still many shortcomings such as low viral suppression rate, rising expense, and the induction of HBV tyrosine-methionine-aspartate-aspartate (YMDD) mutation. This article systematically reviews the current evidence that immunotherapy, conventional drug combinations, and some special fields of HBV infection correlate with liver transplantation.Data sources:Studies were identified by searching MEDLINE and PubMed for articles using the keywords "hepatitis B virus", "hepatitis B vaccination", "lamivudine", "adefovir", "entecavir", "tenofovir", "HBV genotype", and "liver transplantation" up to October 2009. Additional papers were identified by a manual search of the references from the key articles.Results:Hepatitis B vaccine and human monoclonal antibody have very good clinical prospects. Compared with traditional therapies, the new medical regimens have many benefits such as boosting viral suppression rate and decreasing medical expenses. The triple therapy for YMDD mutation also has an excellent therapeutic effect and a low barrier to resistance. New nucleos(t)ide analogues (entecavir and tenofovir) eliminate virus more effectively with few adverse reactions, and may replace lamivudine or HBIG in future.Conclusions:Hepatitis B vaccine needs further large-scale and rigorous randomized controlled trials to confirm its effective dose and injection frequency. Monoclonal antibody is still experimental, and the next step is to carry out the relevant animal and human studies. A consensus standard regimen for the treatment of hepatitis B should be developed.

