30848445
2019 Nov
Background:In the European Liver Transplant Registry, there are 137,863 liver transplantations recorded. Forty-one percent of patients survived 20 years after liver transplantation in the European countries. From 1988, when the US database for liver transplantation was created, to 2006, there are more than 56,000 liver transplants. Almost 80% of the liver transplant recipients survived 5 years after transplantation. The incidence of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) in the European population is 70-140/100.000 person-years. Cancer, paresis, immobilization, thrombophilia, inflammatory bowel disease, replacement hormonal or contraceptive therapies are associated with an increased risk of occurrence DVT or complications. The incidence of DVT in long-term surveillance of liver transplant recipients is unknown. Immunosuppressive therapy, thrombophilia abnormalities, hepatitis C and hepatocellular carcinoma recurrence, renal insufficiency, malignant tumours, obesity and diabetes were associated with DVT in long-term post-liver transplantation. The reported maximum time between liver transplantation and DVT was 210 days.Aim:The aim of the study is to update existing data in the literature regarding the occurrence and management of deep vein thrombosis in liver transplant patients over the long-term surveillence period.Conclusions:There are no specific guideline recommendations regarding acute DVT treatment in long-term surveillance after liver transplantation. Low molecular weight heparin (LMWH), unfractionated heparin (UFH) and vitamin K antagonist (VKA) are the anticoagulants used in specific complications post-transplantation. The safety and the efficacy of direct anticoagulants in liver transplantation recipients need to be assessed in future trials. Given that long-term survival of liver transplantation is much improved, complications associated with transplantation and ageing require appropriate cardiovascular guidelines.
Deep vein thrombosis; Liver transplantation; Post-transplant long-term.
