30993437
2019 Nov
Objectives:To evaluate the lesion-to-liver visual signal intensity ratio (SIR) before and at the hepatobiliary phase MRI (HBP-MRI) after gadobenate dimeglumine (Gd-BOPTA) injection, using several T1-weighted images (T1-WI), for the characterization of benign hepatocellular lesions.Methods:Patients with histologically proven focal nodular hyperplasia (FNH) and hepatocellular adenoma (HCA), who underwent Gd-BOPTA-enhanced HBP-MRI from 2009 to 2017, were retrospectively identified. The lesion-to-liver SIR was visually assessed by two radiologists on HBP (post-HBP analysis) and compared with that of unenhanced sequences (pre/post-HBP analysis) on T1-WI in-phase (T1-IP), out-of-phase (T1-OP), and fat suppression (T1-FS). Lesions were classified as hyper-, iso-, or hypointense on post-HBP, and as decreasing, stable, or increasing SIR on pre/post-HBP analyses. The performance of the different T1-WI sequences for the diagnostic of FNH was evaluated on post-HBP analysis.Results:Twenty-nine FNHs and 33 HCAs were analyzed. On post-HBP analysis, FNHs appeared hyper-/isointense in 89.7% of all T1-WI. HCAs appeared hypointense in 93.9%, 63.6%, and 69.7% of T1-IP, T1-OP, and T1-FS, respectively. FNHs exhibited an increasing SIR in 55.2-58.6%, a stable SIR in 44.8-58.6%, and a decreasing SIR in 0%, whereas HCAs exhibited a decreasing SIR in 66.7-93.9%, a stable SIR in 6.1-33.3%, and an increasing SIR in 0% (p Conclusion:T1-IP is the most reliable sequence due to misleading tumor/liver signal ratio in the case of fatty liver when using T1-FS or T1-OP. The pre/post-HBP lesion-to-liver SIR is accurate to classify benign hepatocellular lesions and contributes to avoid biopsy.Key points:•The T1-weighted images in-phase should be systematically included in the HBP-MRI protocol, as it is the most reliable sequence especially in the case of fatty liver. •The comparison between lesion-to-liver signal intensity ratios on unenhanced and at the hepatobiliary phase sequences is useful to classify benign hepatocellular lesions in three categories without misclassification: FNH (increasing signal intensity ratio), HCA (decreasing signal intensity ration), and indeterminate lesions (stable signal intensity ratio).
Focal nodular hyperplasia; Gadobenate dimeglumine; Hepatocellular adenoma; Liver; Magnetic resonance imaging.
