31564201
2019 Nov
Objective: Recently, the role of long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) has been assessed. Our research was determined to investigate the impacts of lncRNA TP73-AS1 on radioresistance of HCC by modulating PTEN/Akt signaling pathway. Methods: Expression of TP73-AS1 in HCC tissues and cells was detected using reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR). The HCC cells were conducted with different doses of irradiation, then the survival, colony formation and apoptosis were determined by a series of assays. The HCC cell line with a higher expression of TP73-AS1 was transfected with TP73-AS1-siRNA and X-rayed, the expression of TP73-AS1, cell survival, radiosensitivity, and apoptosis were evaluated. Subcutaneous tumorigenesis in nude mice was adopted to record the size of tumors before and after the radiation. RT-qPCR and Western blot analysis were used to clarify the activation of PTEN/Akt signaling pathway. Results: TP73-AS1 was highly expressed in HCC tissues and cells. With the increasing dose of radiation, the relative proliferation activity and survival fraction (SF) of HCC cells was gradually reduced, while the total apoptosis rate was gradually elevated. TP73-AS1 knockdown promoted radiosensitivity and apoptosis, repressed cell proliferation, making it an inhibitor of tumor in HCC. Moreover, reduced TP73-AS1 was able to decline the phosphorylation of Akt and increase the expression of PTEN in HCC. Down-regulated TP73-AS1 could repress tumorigenesis by promoting radiosensitivity in nude mice with HCC. Conclusion: Our study suggests that lncRNA TP73-AS1 was highly expressed in HCC and participated in radioresistance of HCC via PTEN/Akt signaling pathway. Abbreviations: lncRNAs: long non-coding RNAs; lncRNAs: HCC: hepatocellular carcinoma; RT-qPCR: reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction; survival fraction: SF; lncRNA TP73-AS1: LncRNA P73 antisense RNA 1T; PTEN: Phosphatase and tensin homologue; Akt: Protein kinase B; P13K: phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase; TNM: tumor, node and metastasis; ACJJ: American Joint Committee on Cancer; FBS: fetal bovine serum; EDTA: ethylene diamine tetraacetic acid; NC: negative control; DMEM: Dulbecco's modified Eagle medium; OD: optical density; PE: Plating efficiency; FITC/PI: fluoresceine isothiocyanate/propidium iodide; PBS: phosphate buffered solution; GAPDH: Glyceraldehyde phosphate dehydrogenase; ANOVA: one-way analysis of variance; LSD-t: least significant difference test.
Hepatocellular carcinoma; PTEN/Akt signaling pathway; apoptosis; long non-coding RNA TP73-AS1; proliferation; radioresistance.
