31690274
2019 Nov 5
Background:The ultimate goal of locoregional therapy (LRT) to the liver is to induce total tumor necrosis. Trans-arterial chemoembolization (TACE) is the mainstay bridging therapy for patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) waiting for liver transplantation (LT). However, tumor response rate is variable. The purpose of this study was to correlate HCC radiological appearance with level of tumor necrosis during explant analysis from patients undergoing LT who received pre-LT TACE.Methods:From January 2000 to December 2018, a total of 66 patients with HCC who had been treated prior to LT by means of TACE were analyzed. Diagnosis of HCC was made based on AASLD guidelines and confirmed via histopathology explant analysis. Radiologic tumor response after TACE was based on modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (mRECIST). Degree of tumor necrosis was determined by histopathology analysis of liver explants. HCC radiological appearances on CT before TACE were assessed and correlated with histological findings after LT.Results:Eighty nine TACE procedures (1.35 ± 0.67; 1-4) were performed, of which 18 were repeated TACE (27.3%) procedures. In 56.1% of the patients, ≥90% (near-complete) tumor necrosis was achieved. Concordance between mRECIST criteria and pathology was observed in 63% of the patients, with an underestimation of tumor response in 18 (27%) patients and an overestimation in 6 (9.1%). Near-complete tumor necrosis upon pathological analysis was associated with tumor hyper-enhancement in the arterial phase (P = 0.002), "typical tumor enhancement" (P = 0.010) and smooth tumor margins (p = 0.011). The multivariate analysis showed that well circumscribed HCCs with smooth margins and arterial hyper-enhancement independently correlated with post-TACE near-complete histological tumor necrosis.Conclusions:The well circumscribed HCC lesions with arterial hyper-enhancement are more susceptible to TACE than lesions with arterial phase iso or hypo-enhancement and lesions with infiltrative appearance. Pre-TACE CT imaging may ease the selection of an optimal treatment strategy for bridging patients with HCC to liver transplantation.
Computed tomography; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Liver transplantation; Necrosis; Trans-arterial chemoembolization.
