31722693
2019 Nov 13
Background:Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the major type of primary liver cancer. Intrahepatic metastasis, such as portal vein tumor thrombosis (PVTT), strongly indicates poor prognosis of HCC. But now, there are limited understandings of the molecular features and mechanisms of those metastatic HCCs.Methods:To characterize the molecular alterations of the metastatic HCCs, we implemented an integrative analysis of the copy number variations (CNVs), DNA methylations and transcriptomes of matched adjacent normal, primary tumor and PVTT samples from 19 HCC patients.Results:CNV analysis identified a frequently amplified focal region chr11q13.3 and a novel deletion peak chr19q13.41 containing three miRNAs. The integrative analysis with RNA-seq data suggests that CNVs and differential promoter methylations regulate distinct oncogenic processes. Then, we used individualized differential analysis to identify the differentially expressed genes between matched primary tumor and PVTT of each patient. Results show that 5 out of 19 studied patients acquire evidential progressive alterations of gene expressions (more than 1000 differentially expressed genes were identified in each patient). While, another subset of eight patients have nearly identical gene expressions between the corresponding matched primary tumor and PVTT. Twenty genes were found to be recurrently and progressively differentially expressed in multiple patients. These genes are mainly associated with focal adhesion, xenobiotics metabolism by cytochrome P450 and amino acid metabolism. For several differentially expressed genes in metabolic pathways, their expressions are significantly associated with overall survivals and vascular invasions of HCC patients. The following transwell assay experiments validate that they can regulate invasive phenotypes of HCC cells.Conclusions:The metastatic HCCs with PVTTs have significant molecular alterations comparing with adjacent normal tissues. The recurrent alteration patterns are similar to several previously published general HCC cohorts, but usually with higher severity. By an individualized differential analysis strategy, the progressively differentially expressed genes between the primary tumor and PVTT were identified for each patient. A few patients aquire evidential progressive alterations of gene expressions. And, experiments show that several recurrently differentially expressed genes can strongly regulate HCC cell invasions.
Hepatocellular carcinoma; Integrative genomic analysis; Metastasis.
