31727083
2019 Nov 14
Background:Hepatic epithelioid hemangioendothelioma (HEH) is rare; it is reported in Case presentation:The present report describes the histologically proven three HEH cases evaluated using Sonazoid速 CEUS. Case 1 was a 33-year-old female patient with no relevant past medical history, who experienced right upper quadrant pain. Conventional abdominal US revealed multiple low echoic liver nodules with vague borderlines. In CEUS, the vascularity of the nodules was similar to that seen in the neighboring normal liver. Later in the portal venous and late phases (PVLP) and post vascular phase, washout of Sonazoid速 was detected in the nodules. Case 2 was a 93-year-old female patient with a previous medical history including operations for breast cancer and ovary cancer in her 50's. Conventional abdominal US revealed multiple low echoic nodules, some of which contained cystic lesions. In the early vascular phase of CEUS, nodules excluding the central anechoic regions were enhanced from peripheral sites. Although the enhancement inside the nodules persisted in both the PVLP and post vascular phase, anechoic areas in the center of some nodules were not enhanced at all. Case 3 was a 39-year-old male patient presented with right upper-quadrant pain, without any relevant past medical history. Conventional abdominal US revealed multiple low echoic liver nodules. In the early vascular phase of CEUS, nodules were gradually enhanced from the peripheral sites as ringed enhancement. Sonazoid速was washed out from the nodules in the PVLP and post vascular phase.Conclusions:The most important feature was peripheral enhancement in the early vascular phase. In case 2, the enhancement of the parenchyma of liver nodules persisted even in the PVLP; indicating the lower degree of malignant potential than others. Actually, the tumors did not extend without any treatment in case 2. Since case 2 is the first case report of HEH with cystic lesions, in patients with liver nodules including cystic lesions, HEH is a potential diagnosis.
Epithelioid Hemangioendothelioma; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Perfusion imaging; Sonazoid速.
