31744516
2019 Nov 19
Background:The activation of tumour-associated macrophages (TAMs) contributes to the progression of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). SIRT4 acts as a tumour suppressor of tumour growth by regulating cell metabolism, inflammation, and anti-tumourigenesis. However, the involvement of SIRT4 in the activation of TAMs is unknown. Based on previous findings, the expression of SIRT4 in distinct groups of TAMs as well as the effect of SIRT4 silencing on macrophage polarization was investigated.Methods:The expression of SIRT4 in HCC tissues and peritumour tissues was tested by qRT-PCR, western blotting and histological analysis. A Kaplan-Meier survival curve was generated based on the expression of SIRT4 in the HCC samples. Next, immunofluorescence staining was used to evaluate distinct groups of TAMs in human HCC samples, and the expression of SIRT4 in M1 and M2 TAMs was examined by flow cytometry. A homograft mouse model was used to assess the effect of SIRT4 silencing in TAMs on the development of HCC cells.Results:SIRT4 was significantly downregulated in HCC tumour tissues, and the expression of SIRT4 in peritumour tissues was positively associated with survival in patients. We further found that downregulation of SIRT4 was associated with increased macrophage infiltration and a high ratio of M2/M1 macrophages in HCC peritumour tissues. Using gene interference, we found that SIRT4 silencing in TAMs significantly modulated the alternative activation of macrophages and promoted in vitro and in vivo HCC cell growth. Mechanistically, we revealed that HCM restricted the expression of SIRT4 in macrophages and promoted alternative activation of macrophages via the FAO-PPARδ-STAT3 axis. Furthermore, we also revealed that elevated MCP-1 expression induced by SIRT4 downregulation was responsible for increased TAM infiltration in peritumour tissues.Conclusions:Overall, our results demonstrate that downregulation of SIRT4 in TAMs modulates the alternative activation of macrophages and promotes HCC development via the FAO-PPARδ-STAT3 axis. These results could provide a new therapeutic target for the treatment of HCC.
HCC; Inflammatory cytokines; NF-ΚB; PPARδ/STAT3; Sirtuin 4; Tumour-associated macrophages.
