31771612
2019 Nov 26
Background:Accumulated studies reported abnormal gene expression profiles of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) by cDNA microarray. We tried to merge cDNA microarray data from different studies to search for stably changed genes, and to find out better diagnostic and prognostic markers for HCC.Methods:A systematic review was performed by searching publications indexed in Pubmed from March 1, 2001 to July 1, 2016. Studies that reporting cDNA microarray profiles in HCC, containing both tumor and nontumor data and published in English-language were retrieved. The differentially expressed genes from eligible studies were summarized and ranked according to the frequency. High frequency genes were subjected to survival analyses. The expression and prognostic value of alanine-glyoxylate and serine-pyruvate aminotransferase (AGXT) was further evaluated in HCC datasets in Oncomine and an independent HCC tissue array cohort. The role of AGXT in HCC progression was evaluated by proliferation and migration assays in a human HCC cell line.Results:A total of 43 eligible studies that containing 1917 HCC patients were included, a list of 2022 non redundant abnormally expressed genes in HCC were extracted. The frequencies of reported genes were ranked. We finally obtained a list of only five genes (AGXT; ALDOB; CYP2E1; IGFBP3; TOP2A) that were differentially expressed in tumor and nontumor tissues across studies and were significantly correlated to HCC prognosis. Only AGXT had not been reported in HCC. Reduced expression of AGXT reflected poor differentiation of HCC and predicts poor survival. Knocking down of AGXT enhanced cell proliferation and migration of HCC cell line.Conclusions:The present study supported the feasibility and necessity of systematic review on discovering new and reliable biomarkers for HCC. We also identified a list of high frequency prognostic genes and emphasized a critical role of AGXT deletion during HCC progression.
Alanine-glyoxylate and serine-pyruvate aminotransferase; Diagnostic marker; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Prognostic marker; Systematic review.
