31784920
2019 Nov 29
Background:Hepatoid carcinoma (HC) is an extra-hepatic neoplasm that shares the morphological and immunohistochemical features of hepatocellular carcinoma. Pancreatic HC exists as either pure or combined type. Pure pancreatic HC is extremely rare, with only a few cases reported in the literature to date. Because of the rarity of pure pancreatic HC, its clinical features including incidence, behavior, and prognosis remain unclear. We herein report the case of a 56-year-old man who developed pure pancreatic HC treated with surgical resection. We also include a review of the existing literature.Case presentation:A 56-year-old male patient was admitted to our hospital after a pancreatic cyst was identified by abdominal ultrasonography on a comprehensive medical examination. Endoscopic ultrasound revealed a cystic mass measuring 13 mm in size in the pancreatic head and a low-density mass measuring 16 mm in size in the pancreatic tail, which was partially enhanced on contrast-enhanced ultrasound. Contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT) revealed a branch duct type intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasm in the pancreatic head and an early enhanced nodule measuring approximately 10 mm in size in the pancreatic tail. Endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration of the hypervascular tumor was performed. The hypervascular tumor was suspected to be a solid pseudopapillary neoplasm. Laparoscopic spleen-preserving distal pancreatectomy was performed. Histology was identical to hepatocellular carcinoma of the liver. Immunohistochemically, the tumor cells were positive for hepatocyte paraffin 1, and a canalicular pattern was confirmed on the polyclonal carcinoembryonic antigen staining. The patient was diagnosed with a moderately differentiated pancreatic HC. The patient was followed up without adjuvant chemotherapy, and there was no evidence of recurrence at 6 months post-operatively.Conclusions:We present a case of moderately differentiated pure pancreatic HC. For the accurate preoperative diagnosis of pure pancreatic HC, biopsy is preferred to cytology or preoperative imaging studies such as CT. The prognosis of pure pancreatic HC depends on its differentiation.
Hepatocyte paraffin 1; Hepatoid carcinoma; Laparoscopic distal pancreatectomy; Pancreatic cancer; Polyclonal carcinoembryonic antigen.
