31812175
2019 Nov
Pancreatic carcinomas are rare in dogs and clinical signs are mostly non-specific. The literature on clinically and pathologically characterized canine exocrine pancreatic tumours is limited to 76 cases reported since 1963. This retrospective study analysed formalin-fixed samples of pancreatic carcinomas from 22 dogs, obtained during elective exploratory surgery (n = 16) or if the dog was humanely destroyed (n = 6). Tumours were diagnosed according to the World Health Organization classification of tumours of the pancreas of domestic animals. In seven cases, blood samples taken during or shortly before surgery were analysed for concentrations of alpha-amylase, 1,2-o-dilauryl-rac-glycero-3-glutaric acid-(6'-methylresorufin) ester lipase (DGGR lipase), C-reactive protein (CRP), alanine aminotransferase, glutamate dehydrogenase, alkaline phosphatase (ALP), canine trypsin-like immunoreactivity (cTLI) and canine pancreatic lipase immunoreactivity (cPLI). Neutrophil and lymphocyte numbers were determined as part of a complete blood count. Clinical signs were non-specific and included vomiting, inappetence and diarrhoea. Acinar carcinomas were most common (19/22) and observed growth patterns included: solid (n = 14), acinar (n = 5), clear cell (n = 3), mucinous (n = 2), trabecular (n = 1) or rosette-like (n = 1), occurring as a single pattern or in combination. Ductal carcinomas were identified in three cases. Pancreatitis was a common additional histological finding; five dogs had mild and nine dogs had severe pancreatitis. cPLI, DGGR lipase, cTLI and CRP were elevated in 5/5 acinar carcinomas. All liver enzymes were elevated in three of these five animals and ALP was increased in 4/5 dogs. Two dogs with ductal pancreatic carcinomas showed normal cPLI concentrations. One had increased CRP, liver enzymes and leucocytosis with neutrophilia, the other had elevated DGGR lipase and cTLI concentrations. Clinical findings in canine pancreatic carcinomas were non-specific and simultaneous inflammation can mask the detection of the underlying neoplasm in clinical examination and laboratory testing.
dog; pancreatic carcinoma; pancreatitis; serum biochemistry.
