20926317
2011 Jan
Rationale and objectives:The aims of this study were to evaluate the morphologic characteristics and growth pattern of hepatic tumors in H-ras 12V transgenic (TG) mice using a micro-magnetic resonance (MR) system and to assess the usefulness of gadolinium ethoxybenzyl diethylenetriamine penta-acetic acid (Gd-EOB-DTPA) enhancement for the detection of hepatic tumors in these mice.Materials and methods:Hepatocellular carcinoma lines were established to allow insertion of the H-ras 12V transgene under the control of the albumin enhancer/promoter. Seven H-ras 12V TG mice and four wild-type mice were included in this study. The mice underwent various MR imaging examinations, including T1-weighted imaging (repetition time, 300 ms; echo time, 11 ms), Gd-EOB-DTPA-enhanced T1-weighted imaging (dose, 0.025 mmol/kg), and T2-weighted imaging (repetition time, 3500 ms; echo time, 36 ms), with a 4.7-T MR scanner, at 4, 6, 8, and 9 months of age. All mice were euthanized after the final MR imaging procedure, except for one TG mouse and two wild-type mice that were euthanized after MR imaging procedures at 4 months of age. For imaging analysis, the tumor characteristics in each MR sequence, including tumor size, number, and signal intensity (SI), were recorded, and the contrast-to-noise ratio and contrast enhancement ratio were calculated to quantify the SI of the tumor. The MR images were correlated with the findings of histopathologic examinations.Results:No tumors were detected in the four wild-type mice. In the six TG mice, a total of 67 tumors were found in histopathologic specimens obtained at 9 months of age. Of the 67 tumors, 62 were detected on Gd-EOB-DTPA-enhanced T1-weighted images with fat saturation. The majority of hepatic tumors showed high SI on T1-weighted images without fat saturation. The SI diminished on T1-weighted images with fat saturation. The tumor contrast-to-noise ratio for Gd-EOB-DTPA-enhanced T1-weighted imaging was significantly better than that for the other sequences. The tumors were histopathologically confirmed as hepatocellular adenomas (n = 32) and well-differentiated hepatocellular carcinomas (n = 35).Conclusions:Micro-MR imaging can reveal the characteristics of hepatic tumors in a live murine model. Gd-EOB-DTPA-enhanced T1-weighted imaging is helpful in the detection of hepatic tumors in H-ras 12V TG mice.

