25889180
2015 Jun 15
Residues of anti-neoplastic drugs represent new and emerging pollutants in aquatic environments. Many of these drugs are genotoxic, and it has been postulated that they can cause adverse effects in aquatic ecosystems. 5-Fluorouracil (5-FU) is one of the most extensively used anti-neoplastic drugs in cancer therapy, and this article describes the results of the first investigation using a two-generation toxicity study design with zebrafish (Danio rerio). Exposure of zebrafish to 5-FU (0.01, 1.0 and 100 μg/L) was initiated with adult zebrafish (F0 generation) and continued through the hatchings and adults of the F1 generation, and the hatchings of the F2 generation, to day 33 post-fertilisation. The exposure did not affect survival, growth and reproduction of the zebrafish; however, histopathological changes were observed in the liver and kidney, along with genotoxic effects, at all 5-FU concentrations. Increases in DNA damage determined using the comet assay were significant in the liver and blood cells, but not in the gills and gonads. In erythrocytes, a significant, dose-dependent increase in frequency of micronuclei was observed at all 5-FU concentrations. Whole genome transcriptomic analysis of liver samples of F1 generation zebrafish exposed to 0.01 μg/L and 1 μg/L 5-FU revealed dose-dependent increases in the number of differentially expressed genes, including up-regulation of several DNA-damage-responsive genes and oncogenes (i.e., jun, myca). Although this chronic exposure to environmentally relevant concentrations of 5-FU did not affect the reproduction of the exposed zebrafish, it cannot be excluded that 5-FU can lead to degenerative changes, including cancers, which over long-term exposure of several generations might affect fish populations. The data from this study contribute to a better understanding of the potential consequences of chronic exposure of fish to low concentrations of anti-neoplastic drugs, and they demonstrate that further studies into multi-generation toxicity are needed.
5-Fluorouracil; Anticancer drugs; Chronic exposure; Danio rerio; Genotoxic; Toxicogenomic.
