26208465
2015 Jun
Liver transplantation is the ideal treatment for patients affected by early stage hepatocellular carcinoma and chronic liver disease. Considering organs shortage, alternative treatments have to be adopted to minimize the waitlist drop-out, and in case of recurrence within the accepted criteria, salvage transplantation can be considered. Surgical resection is one of the most effective treatments, with the possibility of oncological radicality and pathological analysis of the specimen. Although these theoretical advantages, surgical strategy cannot be applied to all patients because of the impaired liver function as well as the amount of parenchyma to be resected does not allow a sufficient future liver remnant. Furthermore, resection by laparotomy may lead to strong intra-abdominal adhesions in a contest of portal hypertension and, as potential consequence, increase transplantation difficulty raising morbidity. Laparoscopic liver resection is now performed as a routine procedure in tertiary referral centers, with increasing evidence of long-term results comparable to traditional surgery together with the advantages of a minimally invasive approach. In addition, with a salvage transplantation strategy that has been shown to be comparable to primary transplantation, the patient can live with his native liver avoiding an invasive procedure and long-term immunosuppression, allowing the use of liver grafts for the community. We present the results of an Italian multicenter experience of salvage liver transplantation following the recurrence of HCC initially treated by laparoscopic resection in 31 patients, performed by four referral centers. Mean operative transplantation time was 450 min, morbidity was 41.9%, 90-days mortality was 3.2%, and median post-operative length of stay was 17.9 days. Salvage liver transplantation after laparoscopic liver resection for HCC is comparable to open surgery in terms of operative time, oncologic radicality, morbidity and mortality, with the advantages of laparoscopic surgery.

