27126238
2016 Aug
Treatment for liver tumors in the caudate lobe is challenging because of their location and complex anatomy. This study was intended to evaluate the feasibility, efficacy and tolerability of ultrasound-guided percutaneous microwave (MW) ablation for treating hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in the caudate lobe. From December 2011 to May 2015, a total of 20 patients (mean age: 62 ± 11 y) with HCC in the caudate lobe were enrolled in this study. Patient characteristics and tumor features were analyzed. The epigastric approach, intercostal approach and the combination were used in 4, 14 and 2 patients, respectively. Contrast-enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) guidance and temperature monitoring were applied as ancillary techniques. Ethanol injection was performed for tumors adjacent to the inferior vena cava or hepatic hilum. Contrast images were performed to evaluate treatment response after ablation. Technical success, technique efficacy, local tumor progression and complications were documented. Technique efficacy was achieved in 18 patients (18/20, 90%). Two patients received (125)I brachytherapy as palliative therapy for residual tumors that could not be ablated technically after the first ablation. Technical success was achieved in 16 patients (16/20, 80%). In 2 patients, ablation was completed after two sessions. CEUS was applied in 5 patients and temperature monitoring in 2 patients. Eight patients received an ethanol injection during ablation. Eleven patients achieved a minimum 5-mm safety margins. Local tumor progression was detected in 3 patients (16.7%, 3/18) during a median follow-up of 18.4 mo (range: 3-45 mo). Tumors in these 3 patients were all larger than 2.0 cm. No major or minor complications were observed. In conclusion, ultrasound-guided percutaneous microwave ablation combined with CEUS, temperature monitoring, and ethanol injection is a tolerable and relatively effective treatment for HCC in the caudate lobe.
Caudate lobe; Liver neoplasms; Microwave; Sonography; Thermal ablation.
