27387397
2016 Aug 15
Background:Our previous study has shown that Coreopsis tinctoria increases insulin sensitivity and regulates hepatic metabolism in high-fat diet (HFD)-induced insulin resistance rats. However, it is unclear whether or not marein, a major compound of C. tinctoria, could improve insulin resistance. Here we investigate the effect and mechanism of action of marein on improving insulin resistance in HepG2 cells.Methods:We investigated the protective effects of marein in high glucose-induced human liver carcinoma cell HepG2. In kinase inhibitor studies, genistein, LY294002, STO-609 and compound C were added to HepG2 cells 1h before the addition of marein. Transfection with siRNA was used to knock down LKB1, and 2-(N-(7-nitrobenz-2-oxa-1, 3-diazol-4-yl) amino)-2-deoxyglucose (2-NBDG), an effective tracer, was used to detect glucose uptake.Results:The results showed for the first time that marein significantly stimulates the phosphorylation of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) and the Akt substrate of 160kDa (AS160) and enhanced the translocation of glucose transporter 1 (GLUT1) to the plasma membrane. Further study indicated that genistein (an insulin receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor) altered the effect of marein on glucose uptake, and both LY294002 (a phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitor) and compound C (an AMP-activated protein kinase inhibitor) significantly decreased marein-stimulated 2-NBDG uptake. Additionally, marein-stimulated glucose uptake was blocked in the presence of STO-609, a CaMKK inhibitor; however, marein-stimulated AMPK phosphorylation was not blocked by LKB1 siRNA in HepG2 cells. Marein also inhibited the phosphorylation of insulin receptor substrate (IRS-1) at Ser 612, but inhibited GSK-3β phosphorylation and increased glycogen synthesis. Moreover, marein significantly decreased the expression levels of FoxO1, G6Pase and PEPCK.Conclusions:Consequently, marein improved insulin resistance induced by high glucose in HepG2 cells through CaMKK/AMPK/GLUT1 to promote glucose uptake, through IRS/Akt/GSK-3β to increase glycogen synthesis, and through Akt/FoxO1 to decrease gluconeogenesis. Marein could be a promising leading compound for the development of hypoglycemic agent or developed as an adjuvant drug for diabetes mellitus.
Akt; FoxO1; Gluconeogenesis; Glycogen synthesis; HepG2 cells; Marein.
