27567667
2016 Aug 27
Background:Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the third leading cause of cancer-related deaths. The average survival and 5-year survival rates of HCC patients still remains poor. Thus, there is an urgent need to better understand the mechanisms of cancer progression in HCC and to identify useful biomarkers to predict prognosis.Methods:Public data portals including Oncomine, The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) profiles were used to retrieve the HCC-related microarrays and to identify potential genes contributed to cancer progression. Bioinformatics analyses including pathway enrichment, protein/gene interaction and text mining were used to explain the potential roles of the identified genes in HCC. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction analysis and Western blotting were used to measure the expression of the targets. The data were analysed by SPSS 20.0 software.Results:We identified 80 genes that were significantly dysregulated in HCC according to four independent microarrays covering 386 cases of HCC and 327 normal liver tissues. Twenty genes were consistently and stably dysregulated in the four microarrays by at least 2-fold and detection of gene expression by RT-qPCR and western blotting showed consistent expression profiles in 11 HCC tissues compared with corresponding paracancerous tissues. Eleven of these 20 genes were associated with disease-free survival (DFS) or overall survival (OS) in a cohort of 157 HCC patients, and eight genes were associated with tumour pathologic PT, tumour stage or vital status. Potential roles of those 20 genes in regulation of HCC progression were predicted, primarily in association with metastasis. INTS8 was specifically correlated with most clinical characteristics including DFS, OS, stage, metastasis, invasiveness, diagnosis, and age.Conclusion:The significantly dysregulated genes identified in this study were associated with cancer progression and prognosis in HCC, and might be potential therapeutic targets for HCC treatment or potential biomarkers for diagnosis and prognosis.
Hepatocellular carcinoma; Microarray; Prognosis; Progression.
