28733732
2018 Feb
Background:Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) with stent placement is used for the management of many pancreaticobiliary disorders. It is generally safe with a few short-term complications. The risk factors for the development of post-ERCP cholangitis due to stent occlusion have not been previously described. This study identified such risk factors among patients undergoing ERCP and stent placement for pancreatic or biliary obstruction.Methods:3648 ERCPs performed at the University of Louisville from 2008 to 2016 were reviewed. Data including patient demographics, diagnostic, laboratory, and ERCP related data were included. Patients were classified as having post-ERCP cholangitis if they developed jaundice, fever, right upper quadrant abdominal pain, and confirmatory findings of stent occlusion and/or purulent drainage at the time of repeat ERCP. These patients were compared to those who did not develop post-ERCP cholangitis using univariate and multivariate analyses.Results:A total of 431 patients met inclusion criteria. Of these, 57 (13.2%) developed post-ERCP cholangitis. The average age of patients was 57 years with 57% women and 43% men. On univariate analysis, patients developing post-ERCP cholangitis were more likely to be of increased age, have higher white blood cell count (WBC), total bilirubin (TBili), AST, ALT, and alkaline phosphatase (AlkPhos), and a decreased serum albumin level. Risk factors for post-ERCP cholangitis due to stent occlusion identified on multivariate analysis include: a diagnosis of cancer, the placement of multiple biliary stents at index ERCP, and low serum albumin level.Conclusions:The development of post-ERCP cholangitis due to stent occlusion is strongly associated with the presence of malignancy, the placement of multiple biliary stents, and low serum albumin. A decreased threshold to monitor for stent occlusion, including routine liver function tests and prophylactic stent removal or exchange, should be employed in patients with these characteristics.
Cholangitis; Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography.
