29091004
2018 Feb
Objective:We determined the cost-effectiveness of two different diagnostic imaging strategies in guiding curative treatment of early-stage hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).Materials and methods:We developed a decision analytic model using as its starting point a cohort of patients aged 55 years with early-stage HCC detected at dynamic multiphasic CT and with Child-Pugh class A cirrhosis. The model compared two strategies on the initial workup: conventional CT strategy using dynamic multiphasic CT only and gadoxetic acid-enhanced MRI strategy using additional gadoxetic acid-enhanced MRI after initial CT. A Markov cohort model simulated a cohort of patients after curative or adjuvant treatment, with follow-up over the remaining life expectancy. We analyzed mean life-years gain, quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), costs per person, and incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER). To evaluate results, we performed one-way, two-way, and probabilistic sensitivity analyses.Results:The life expectancies and QALY were 7.22 years and 5.08 for the conventional CT strategy and 7.79 years and 5.52 for the gadoxetic acid-enhanced MRI strategy, respectively. The expected costs were $99,770 for conventional CT and $105,025 for gadoxetic acid-enhanced MRI in the United States. The ICER with gadoxetic acid-enhanced MRI was $11,957, as opposed to that with conventional CT, which was lower than the cost-effectiveness threshold of $50,000/QALY. One-way, two-way, and probabilistic sensitivity analyses showed unchanged results over an acceptable range.Conclusion:Gadoxetic acid-enhanced MRI after CT is cost-effective for detecting additional HCC in patients with early-stage HCC who can undergo curative treatment (besides liver transplantation). The cost-effectiveness of gadoxetic acid-enhanced MRI may be considered in the management of patients with early-stage HCC during staging.
cost-effectiveness analysis; gadoxetic acid–enhanced MRI; hepatocellular carcinoma; incremental cost-effectiveness ratios; quality-adjusted life-years.
