29257268
2018 Feb
Ovarian cancer is the most common and lethal type of gynecological malignancy, due to its invasiveness. The present study aimed to analyze the molecular mechanism underlying chemoresistance in ovarian carcinoma cells, which may lead to local migration toward adjacent tissues and long‑distance metastasis to other organs. A total of 12 patients with ovarian fibroma were used to evaluate chemoresistance and chemosensitivity. The sensitivity and resistance of ovarian carcinoma cells was measured using apoptosis analysis, morphological observation, survival rate analysis, immunohistochemistry and immunostaining. The mechanism underlying the interaction between the epithelial‑mesenchymal transition (EMT) and liver kinase B1 (LKB1)‑salt‑inducible kinase 1 (SIK1) signaling pathways was additionally investigated in ovarian carcinoma. The results of the present study demonstrated that ovarian carcinoma cells isolated from patients exhibited apoptosis resistance. Inhibition of TGF‑β expression led to an inhibition of growth, migration and invasion, in addition to a promotion of apoptosis, in ovarian carcinoma cells treated with paclitaxel. Studies have indicated that the LKB1‑SIK1 signaling pathway may be suppressed in ovarian carcinoma cells compared with normal ovarian cells, leading to activation of the EMT signaling pathway. The results of the present study demonstrated that upregulation of LKB1 promoted SIK1 expression and markedly suppressed the growth and aggressiveness of ovarian cancer cells. Upregulation of LKB1 additionally promoted apoptosis in ovarian carcinoma cells. In addition, the results of the present study demonstrated that the knockdown of LKB1 further promoted the expression of transforming growth factor‑β and EMT, which downregulated the chemosensitivity of ovarian carcinoma cells. Additionally, overexpression of LKB1 in ovarian carcinoma cells increased chemosensitivity, resulting in a significant inhibition of migration and invasion. The present findings indicated that the enhancement of LKB1‑SIK1 suppressed the growth and aggressiveness of ovarian carcinoma cells isolated from clinical patients, which subsequently contributed to an inhibition of metastatic potential. In conclusion, targeting the LKB1‑SIK1 signaling pathway to inhibit EMT may provide potential therapeutic benefits in ovarian carcinoma.

