29397624
2018 Feb 1
Objective: To investigate the principles of diagnosis and treatment of breast cancer during pregnancy. Methods: Clinical data of patients with breast cancer during pregnancy admitted to Obstetrics and Gynecology Hospital of Fudan University between January 2012 to July 2017 were analyzed retrospectively. A total of 17 patients were diagnosed with breast cancer in pregnancy, the median age was 32 years (range from 25 to 45 years old), pathological staging revealed 2 patient with stage 0, 1 with stage Ⅱa, 7 with stage Ⅱb, 1 with stage Ⅲa, 2 with stage Ⅲc, 4 with stage Ⅳ. Results: Thirteen patients received surgical treatment in pregnancy, the gestational age at surgery was (27.7±4.6) weeks; 2 patients with ductal carcinoma in situ received mastectomy, 11 patients with breast cancer underwent modified radical mastectomy. In patients undergoing surgery during pregnancy, no prophylactic contractions were used in 4 patients who had been treated earlier, there were 2 patients with frequent contractions within 24 hours after operation in these patients. Follow-up 9 patients were given oral nifedipine to prevent contractions, no obvious contractions occurred after the operation. Seven patients received chemotherapy during pregnancy; the chemotherapy of 4 cases of triple negative breast cancer was weekly paclitaxel sequential epirubicin and cyclophosphamide, the chemotherapy of the other three patients was docetaxel sequential epirubicin and cyclophosphamide. Fifteen patients underwent cesarean section to terminate pregnancy, 2 patients underwent spontaneous labor. The gestational age of birth was (36.9 ±1.3) weeks. Less than 35 weeks of termination of pregnancy occurred in one patient, the fetus was delivered to the neonatal intensive care unit due to neonatal respiratory distress syndrome, and suffered from congenital dysaudia. The prognosis of the other 16 survived infants was good. The median follow-up time was 10 months (range from 4 to 27) months, in 13 patients of stage 0 to Ⅲc, one patient were diagnosed with bone metastasis at 12 months after surgery, the remaining 12 patients had no disease progression, the progression free survival rate was 12/13, the overall survival rate was 13/13. Among the 4 patients with stage Ⅳ, one died in 7 months after delivery, one had new liver metastasis in 8 months after delivery. The remaining 2 patients were in stable condition. Conclusions: Breast cancer in pregnancy can be treated effectively, multidisciplinary cooperation and detailed assessment of maternal-fetal risks and benefits are necessary. Chemotherapy during pregnancy is safe for maternal-fetal, but it needed a large sample of clinical studies and long-term follow-up. The neonatal outcome was associated with gestational age, and therefore premature delivery was avoided as much as possible during treatment.
Antineoplastic combined chemotherapy protocols; Breast neoplasms; Endocrine surgical procedures; Pregnant women.
