29482581
2018 Feb 26
Background:Adenosine triphosphate (ATP)-dependent chromatin remodeling SWI/SNF-like BAF and PBAF complexes have been implicated in the regulation of stem cell function and cancers. Several subunits of BAF or PBAF, including BRG1, BAF53a, BAF45a, BAF180, and BAF250a, are known to be involved in hematopoiesis. Baf200, a subunit of PBAF complex, plays a pivotal role in heart morphogenesis and coronary artery angiogenesis. However, little is known on the importance of Baf200 in normal and malignant hematopoiesis.Methods:Utilizing Tie2-Cre-, Vav-iCre-, and Mx1-Cre-mediated Baf200 gene deletion combined with fetal liver/bone marrow transplantation, we investigated the function of Baf200 in fetal and adult hematopoiesis. In addition, a mouse model of MLL-AF9-driven leukemogenesis was used to study the role of Baf200 in malignant hematopoiesis. We also explored the potential mechanism by using RNA-seq, RT-qPCR, cell cycle, and apoptosis assays.Results:Tie2-Cre-mediated loss of Baf200 causes perinatal death due to defective erythropoiesis and impaired hematopoietic stem cell expansion in the fetal liver. Vav-iCre-mediated loss of Baf200 causes only mild anemia and enhanced extramedullary hematopoiesis. Fetal liver hematopoietic stem cells from Tie2-Cre + , Baf200 f/f or Vav-iCre + , Baf200 f/f embryos and bone marrow hematopoietic stem cells from Vav-iCre + , Baf200 f/f mice exhibited impaired long-term reconstitution potential in vivo. A cell-autonomous requirement of Baf200 for hematopoietic stem cell function was confirmed utilizing the interferon-inducible Mx1-Cre mouse strain. Transcriptomes analysis revealed that expression of several erythropoiesis- and hematopoiesis-associated genes were regulated by Baf200. In addition, loss of Baf200 in a mouse model of MLL-AF9-driven leukemogenesis accelerates the tumor burden and shortens the host survival.Conclusion:Our current studies uncover critical roles of Baf200 in both normal and malignant hematopoiesis and provide a potential therapeutic target for suppressing the progression of leukemia without interfering with normal hematopoiesis.
Chromatin remodeling complex; Epigenetics; Hematopoiesis; Leukemogenesis.
