30217703
2019 Feb
Background:The number of transarterial percutaneous procedures has risen over the years, consequently reducing puncture site related complications has become a necessity. To this end, the use of arterial closure devices has been growing progressively and their benefits have become a focus of research. The purpose of this study is to assess the safety and effectiveness of a suture-mediated closure device, Perclose ProGlide® (Abbott Vascular, Redwood City, CA), in patients with liver disease and hepatocellular carcinoma who underwent transarterial liver chemoembolization with drug-eluting beads.Materials and methods:A cohort of 253 hepatocellular carcinoma patients who underwent 449 procedures of transarterial liver chemoembolization with drug-eluting beads using the Perclose Proglide device was prospectively studied. The main endpoints evaluated were the technical success of the device, defined as complete hemostasis achieved within 3 min after the closure, and the incidence of puncture-site complications. The secondary endpoints evaluated were the correlation between epidemiological factors, coagulation profile and degree of liver disease, and the occurrence of complications.Results:Technical success was achieved in 96% of the cases. Among patients who underwent repeated procedures using the same vascular access, this rate was 95.3%. Puncture-site complications were observed in 7 procedures (1.56%); 4 (0.89%) were due to hemorrhage, 2 (0.44%) hematomas and 2 (0.44%) pseudoaneurysms; 2 (0.44%) due to limb ischemia; and 1 (0.22%) due to arterial dissection. Among them, 3 cases required intervention. The statistical analysis of demographic characteristics, Child-Pugh classification, and coagulation status did not show a significant correlation with the occurrence of complications. Of the 449 procedures, only 4 (0.89%) needed hospitalization due to puncture-site complications.Conclusions:The use of Perclose Proglide is safe and effective in patients with liver disease and hepatocellular carcinoma who underwent transarterial liver chemoembolization with drug-eluting beads.

