25934165
2015 May
Purpose:To evaluate the feasibility of a novel planning concept that differentially redistributes RT dose away from functional liver regions as defined by (99m)Tc-sulphur colloid (SC) uptake on patient SPECT/CT images.Materials and methods:Ten HCC patients with different Child-Turcotte-Pugh scores (A5-B9) underwent SC SPECT/CT scans in treatment position prior to RT that were registered to planning CT scans. Proton pencil beam scanning (PBS) therapy plans were optimized to deliver 37.5-60.0Gy (RBE) over 5-15 fractions using single field uniform dose technique robust to range and setup uncertainty. Photon volumetrically modulated arc therapy (VMAT) plans were optimized to the same prescribed dose and minimum target coverage. For both treatment modalities, differential hepatic avoidance RT (DHART) plans were generated to decrease dose to functional liver volumes (FLV) defined by a range of thresholds relative to maximum SC uptake (43-90%) in the tumor-subtracted liver. Radiation dose was redistributed away from regions of increased SC uptake in each FLV by linearly scaling mean dose objectives during PBS or VMAT optimization. DHART planning feasibility was assessed by a significantly negative Spearman's rank correlation (RS) between dose difference and SC uptake. Patient, tumor, and treatment planning characteristics were tested for association to DHART planning feasibility using non-parametric Kruskal-Wallis ANOVA.Results:Compared to conventional plans, DHART plans achieved a 3% FLV dose reduction for every 10% SC uptake increase. DHART planning was feasible in the majority of patients with 60% of patients having RS-0.60, pConclusion:Differential avoidance of functional liver regions defined on sulphur colloid SPECT/CT is achievable with either photon VMAT or proton PBS therapy. Further investigation with phantom studies and in a larger cohort of patients may validate the utility of DHART planning for HCC radiotherapy.
Dose painting; Functional avoidance; HCC; PBS; SPECT; Sulphur colloid.
