26052402
2015 May 18
Patients who are infected with hepatitis C virus (HCV) and also have advanced fibrosis or cirrhosis have been recognized as "difficult-to-treat" patients during an era when peginterferon and ribavirin combination therapy is the standard of care. Recent guidelines have clearly stated that treatment should be prioritized in this population to prevent complications such as decompensation and hepatocellular carcinoma. Recent advances in the treatment of chronic hepatitis C have been achieved through the development of direct-acting antiviral agents (DAAs). Boceprevir and telaprevir are first-generation DAAs that inhibit the HCV NS3/4A protease. Boceprevir or telaprevir, in combination with peginterferon and ribavirin, improved the sustained virological response rates compared with peginterferon and ribavirin alone and were tolerated in patients with HCV genotype 1 infection without cirrhosis or compensated cirrhosis. However, the efficacy is lower especially in prior non-responders with or without cirrhosis. Furthermore, a high incidence of adverse events was observed in patients with advanced liver disease, including cirrhosis, in real-life settings. Current guidelines in the United States and in some European countries no longer recommend these regimens for the treatment of HCV. Next-generation DAAs include second-generation HCV NS3/4A protease inhibitors, HCV NS5A inhibitors and HCV NS5B inhibitors, which have a high efficacy and a lower toxicity. These drugs are used in interferon-free or in interferon-based regimens with or without ribavirin in combination with different classes of DAAs. Interferon-based regimens, such as simeprevir in combination with peginterferon and ribavirin, are well tolerated and are highly effective especially in treatment-naïve patients and in patients who received treatment but who relapsed. The efficacy is less pronounced in null-responders and in patients with cirrhosis. Interferon-free regimens in combination with ribavirin and/or two or more DAAs could be used for treatment-naïve, treatment-experienced and even for interferon-ineligible or interferon-intolerant patients. Some clinical trials have demonstrated promising results, and have shown that the efficacy and safety were not different between patients with and without cirrhosis. There are also promising regimens for genotypes other than genotype 1. Interferon is contraindicated in patients with decompensated cirrhosis, and further studies are needed to establish the optimal treatment regimen for this population. In the future, interferon-free and ribavirin-free regimens with high efficacy and improved safety are expected for HCV-infected patients with advanced liver diseases.
Direct-acting antiviral agent; Hepatitis C virus; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Interferon-free regimen; Liver cirrhosis.
