30567989
2019 Mar 5
Hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection is a major risk factor for the development of chronic liver diseases, including cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). A growing body of evidence suggests that HBV X protein (HBx) plays a crucial role in viral replication and HCC development. Here, we identified peroxiredoxin 1 (Prdx1), a cellular hydrogen peroxide scavenger, as a novel HBx-interacting protein. Coimmunoprecipitation analysis coupled with site-directed mutagenesis revealed that the region from amino acids 17 to 20 of the HBx, particularly HBx Cys17, is responsible for the interaction with Prdx1. Knockdown of Prdx1 by siRNA significantly increased the levels of intracellular HBV RNA, HBV antigens, and extracellular HBV DNA, whereas knockdown of Prdx1 did not increase the activities of HBV core, enhancer I (Enh1)/X, preS1, and preS2/S promoters. Kinetic analysis of HBV RNA showed that knockdown of Prdx1 inhibited HBV RNA decay, suggesting that Prdx1 reduces HBV RNA levels posttranscriptionally. The RNA coimmunoprecipitation assay revealed that Prdx1 interacted with HBV RNA. The exosome component 5 (Exosc5), a member of the RNA exosome complexes, was coimmunoprecipitated with Prdx1, suggesting its role in regulation of HBV RNA stability. Taken together, these results suggest that Prdx1 and Exosc5 play crucial roles in host defense mechanisms against HBV infection.IMPORTANCE Hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection is a major global health problem. HBx plays important roles in HBV replication and viral carcinogenesis through its interaction with host factors. In this study, we identified Prdx1 as a novel HBx-binding protein. We provide evidence suggesting that Prdx1 promotes HBV RNA decay through interaction with HBV RNA and Exosc5, leading to downregulation of HBV RNA. These results suggest that Prdx1 negatively regulates HBV propagation. Our findings may shed new light on the roles of Prdx1 and Exosc5 in host defense mechanisms in HBV infection.
HBx; Prdx1; hepatitis B virus.
