30708065
2019 Mar 15
Water-in-oil (W/O) Lipiodol emulsions remain the preferable choice for local delivery of chemotherapy in the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma. However, their low stability severely hampers their efficiency. Here, remarkably stable W/O Lipiodol emulsion stabilized by biodegradable particles was developed thanks to Pickering technology. The addition of poly(lactide-co-glycolide) nanoparticles (NPs) into the aqueous-phase of the formulation led to W/O Pickering emulsion by a simple emulsification process through two connected syringes. Influence of nanoparticles concentration and water/oil ratio on emulsion stability and droplet size were studied. All formulated Pickering emulsions were W/O type, stable for at least one month and water droplets size could be tuned by controlling nanoparticle concentration from 24 µm at 25 mg/mL to 69 µm at 5 mg/mL. The potential of these emulsions to efficiently encapsulate chemotherapy was studied through the internalization of doxorubicin (DOX) into the aqueous phase with a water/oil ratio of 1/3 as recommended by the medical community. Loaded-doxorubicin was released from conventional emulsion within a few hours whereas doxorubicin from stable Pickering emulsion took up to 10 days to be completely released. In addition, in vitro cell viability evaluations performed on the components of the emulsion and the Pickering emulsion have shown no significant toxicity up to relatively high concentrations of NPs (3 mg/mL) on two different cell lines: HUVEC and HepG2. STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE: We present an original experimental research in the field of nanotechnology for biomedical applications. In particular, we have formulated, thanks to Pickering technology, a new therapeutic emulsion stabilized with biodegradable PLGA nanoparticles. As far as we know, this is the first therapeutic Pickering emulsion reported in the literature for hepatocellular carcinoma. Such a new emulsion allows to easily prepare a predictable and stable lipiodolized emulsion having all the required characteristics for optimum tumor uptake. As demonstrated throughout our manuscript, emulsions stabilized with these nanoparticles have the advantage of being biodegradable, biocompatible and less toxic compared to usual emulsions stabilized with synthetic surfactants. These findings demonstrate the plausibility of the use of Pickering emulsions for chemoembolization as a therapeutic agent in extended release formulations.
Doxorubicin; Hepatocarcinoma; Lipiodol; Nanoparticles; Pickering emulsion.
