30799589
2019 Mar
Purpose:Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a highly aggressive malignant tumor, the prognosis of which remains poor. Recently, microRNAs have been reported to play crucial functions in multiple tumors, including HCC. However, the molecular mechanisms of miR-370 in HCC still remain largely unknown. The present study focused on the effects of miR-370 on HCC migration, invasion, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT).Materials and methods:We investigated the key roles and possible regulatory mechanism of miR-370 in regulating HCC metastasis with functional assays, such as transwell assay. Quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) was used to detect miR-370 and guanylylcyclase domain containing 1 (GUCD1) expression in HCC tissues and cells. Subsequently, we performed transwell assays to determine the functions of miR-370 in HCC cell invasion and migration. Western blot was used to determine protein expressions of relevant genes. Luciferase reporter assays were conducted to confirm the target gene of miR-370.Results:qRT-PCR analysis demonstrated that miR-370 was dramatically downregulated in HCC. Moreover, downregulated miR-370 was found to be associated with poor survival and adverse clinicopathologic characteristics of HCC patients. Transwell assays revealed that miR-370 overexpression dramatically suppressed HCC invasion and migration. Meanwhile, miR-370 restoration prominently inhibited EMT progression in HCC cells. Luciferase reporter assays confirmed GUCD1 as a downstream target gene of miR-370. GUCD1 expression in HCC tissues was prominently increased and inversely correlated with miR-370 expression. Furthermore, GUCD1 was verified as mediating the suppressive influence of miR-370 on cell metastasis and EMT in HCC.Conclusion:Taken together, our study confirmed that miR-370 suppressed HCC cell metastasis and EMT via regulating GUCD1. Accordingly, the miR-370/GUCD1 axis may potentially acts as attractive therapeutic targets and novel biomarkers for HCC treatment.
GUCD1; Hepatocellular carcinoma; epithelial-mesenchymal transition; invasion; miR-370; migration; prognosis.
