30886644
2019 Mar 6
Abstract:Metastasis-associated lung adenocarcinoma transcript 1 (MALAT1), a long non coding RNA (lncRNA) present in serum, is an important biomarker for detecting hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). However, there are some shortcomings in current detection methods. So developing other novel MALAT1 detection methods is necessary. Electrochemical biosensors using different types of nanomaterials with various advantages may provide a suitable method for detection. Here, a new strategy for MALAT1 detection was proposed based on polyhedral nanogold-polyamide-amine dendrimers (PNG-PAMAMs). The SWCNH/Au composite was used as a capture probe immobilization matrix, and PNG-PAMAM was used as a trace label for the detection probe (DP). The strategy takes advantage of the ability of the surface of PNG to bind a capture probe whose sequence contains (GGG)3 trimer that can bind DNAzyme hemin. Moreover, PNG may carry abundant horseradish peroxidases (HRPs) to block excess nonspecific adsorption sites, with synergistic hemin catalysis. The results show that the biosensor provides ultrasensitive detection of MALAT1 with a remarkable catalytic effect. The enhanced biosensor has a detection limit of 0.22 fmol·mL- 1 for MALAT1, and the linear calibration of the biosensor ranged from 1 fmol·mL- 1 to 100 pmol·mL- 1. In addition, the electrochemical biosensor has desirable qualities compared to other detectors; for instance, it is inexpensive, highly stable, and sensitive and has good reproducibility. This assay was also successfully applied to the detection of MALAT1 in serum samples, demonstrating that the technology has potential application in the detection of MALAT1 for clinical HCC diagnosis.Graphical abstract:The schematic presentation ilustrates MALATI detection by biosensor with differential pulse stripping voltammetry. Polyhedral nanogold-PAMAM/horseradish peroxidases (PNG-PAMAM/HRP) detection probe with DNAzyme (hemin) sites was applied to determine MALATI. Signal was amplified by hemin/HRP/H2O2 catalytic system.
Biosensor; Hemin; Long noncoding RNA (lncRNA); MALAT1; PNG.
