30909652
2019 Mar 24
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most frequent primary malignancy of the liver and is among the top three causes of cancer-associated death worldwide. However, the clinical use of chemotherapy for HCC has been limited by various challenges, emphasizing the urgent need for novel agents with improved anticancer properties. We recently synthesized and characterized a series of 4,11-diaminoanthra[2,3-b]furan-5,10-dione derivatives that exhibit potent apoptotic activity against an array of cancer cell lines, including variants with multidrug resistance. Their effect on liver cancer cells, however, was unknown. Here, we investigated three selected 4,11-diaminoanthra[2,3-b]furan-5,10-dione derivatives (compounds 1⁻3) for their cytotoxicity and the underlying molecular mechanisms in wild-type or p53-deficient HCC cells. Cytotoxicity was determined by WST-1 assays and cell impedance measurements and apoptosis was analyzed by flow cytometry. The interaction between compounds and tumor-associated NADH oxidase (tNOX, ENOX2) was studied by cellular thermal shift assay (CETSA). We found that compound 1 and 2 induced significant cytotoxicity in both HepG2 and Hep3B lines. CETSA revealed that compounds 1 and 2 directly engaged with tNOX, leading to a decrease in the cellular NAD⁺/NADH ratio. This decreased the NAD⁺-dependent activity of Sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) deacetylase. In p53-wild-type HepG2 cells, p53 acetylation/activation was enhanced, possibly due to the reduction in SIRT1 activity, and apoptosis was observed. In p53-deficient Hep3B cells, the reduction in SIRT1 activity increased the acetylation of c-Myc, thereby reactivating the TRAIL pathway and, ultimately leading to apoptosis. These compounds thus trigger apoptosis in both cell types, but via different pathways. Taken together, our data show that derivatives 1 and 2 of 4,11-diaminoanthra[2,3-b]furan-5,10-diones engage with tNOX and inhibit its oxidase activity. This results in cytotoxicity via apoptosis through tNOX-SIRT1 axis to enhance the acetylation of p53 or c-Myc in HCC cells, depending on their p53 status.
anthraquinone derivatives; apoptosis; c-Myc; hepatocellular carcinoma; p53; protein acetylation; sirtuin 1 (SIRT1); tumor-associated NADH oxidase (tNOX or ENOX2).
