30989864
2019 Mar
A stable hepatoma cell line(Hep G2 cell) insulin resistance model was established and used to analyze the effect of effective components of Mori Folium in alleviating insulin resistance,and preliminary explore the mechanism for alleviating insulin resistance. The Hep G2 insulin action concentration and the duration of action were investigated using the glucose oxidase method(GOD-POD method) to establish a stable Hep G2 insulin resistance model. Normal control group,model group,Mori Folium polysaccharide group,Mori Folium flavonoid group and rosiglitazone group were divided to determine the glucose consumption. The effect of Mori Folium effective components on Hep G2 insulin resistance was analyzed. The mRNA expressions of JNK,IRS-1 and PDX-1 in each group were detected by Real-time quantitative PCR(qRT-PCR). The protein expressions of p-JNK,IRS-1 and PDX-1 were detected by Western blot. And the mechanism of effective components of Mori Folium in alleviating insulin resistance was investigated. The results showed that the glucose consumption was significantly decreased in the insulin resistance cells after incubation with 25. 0 mg·L-1 insulin for 36 h(P<0. 01),and the model was relatively stable within 36 h. Mori Folium polysaccharides and flavonoids all alleviated insulin resistance,among which Mori Folium flavonoids had better effect in alleviating Hep G2 insulin resistance(P<0. 05). The qRT-PCR analysis showed that Mori Folium polysaccharides and flavonoids could inhibit JNK and IRS-1 mRNA expressions,while enhancing PDX-1 mRNA expression. Western blot analysis displayed that Mori Folium polysaccharides and flavonoids could inhibit p-JNK and IRS-1 protein expressions,while enhancing PDX-1 protein expression. Mori Folium polysaccharides and flavonoids can alleviate insulin resistance in Hep G2 cells,and its mechanism may be the alleviation of insulin resistance by inhibiting JNK signaling pathway.
Hep G2 cells; JNK signaling pathway; Mori Folium; insulin resistance.
