21679548
2011 Apr
Hepatic surgery has evolved significantly in the past decade. The current article describes the largest series of patients in United States undergoing liver resective therapy with the use of microwave technology for liver precoagulation. Glisson's capsule was incised after securing inflow and outflow control. Two antennae, 2 cm apart, connected to a 915-MHz generator, were inserted 5 cm into liver parenchyma at a 130° angle. Once the parenchyma was firm and changed its color to gray, the antennae were advanced along the line of transection. The parenchyma was divided with electrocautery. Intra- and postoperative data were analyzed. Thirty-five patients (24 men) underwent liver resections. Diseases treated were colorectal metastases (n = 9), hepatic adenoma (n = 3), gallbladder cancer (n = 3), hepatocellular carcinoma (n = 4), neuroendocrine tumor (n = 2), cholangiocarcinoma (n = 5), hemangioma (n = 2), focal nodular hyperplasia (n = 2), metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumor (n = 1), hydatid cyst (n = 1), hepatoid carcinoma (n = 1), hepatolithiasis (n = 1), and suspected metastatic breast cancer (n = 1). Resections done were right hepatectomy (n = 19), segmental resection (n = 5), left hepatectomy (n = 4), extended right hepatectomy (n = 4), Segment IVb and Segment V resections during radical cholecystectomy (n = 2), and left lateral sectionectomy (n = 1). Median operative time for major resection was 188 and 251 minutes for minor resection. There was one postoperative mortality. Bile leak needing stenting occurred in one patient. Median blood loss for major resection was 500 mL and 265 mL for minor resection. Intraoperative transfusion was required in nine major and one minor resections. Other complications were ileus in four, deep vein thrombosis in two, intra-abdominal abscess in one, and cardiac events in two patients. Liver precoagulation with microwave technology is a novel and efficient technique with minimal morbidity and mortality for liver transection.

