24639109
2014 Sep
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a malignant tumor characterized by easy metastasis and frequent recurrence. Transarterial chemoembolization (TACE) remains the routine treatment for patients with HCC who are not eligible for surgical resection or percutaneous tumor ablation; however, 5-year survival rates following interventional therapy are only 17-38.8 %, with liver recurrence due to incomplete embolization and tumor angiogenesis being a significant reason for treatment failure. Ischemia and hypoxia induced by TACE is correlated with an increased expression of angiogenic factor and stimulates an increase in angiogenesis, including endothelial cells (ECs) proliferation. Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are zinc-dependent proteolytic endopeptidases involved in tumor angiogenesis. In addition, MMPs stimulate tumor cell growth, migration and invasion, and metastasis. Hypoxia enhanced EC migration in a MMP-2-dependent manner while MMP inhibitors (MMPIs) significantly decreased the number of migrating cells in hypoxic cultures. We hypothesize batimastat (synthetic MMPI) nanoparticles associated with TACE could decrease HCC recurrence and metastasis. At first, batimastat nanoparticles were made from batimastat and poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid). Then, nanoparticles were mixed with lipiodol and chemotherapeutic drugs solution. The mixture was infused super-selectively into supplied artery of HCC through catheter. The disseminated area of batimastat might be same with TACE-induced hypoxia area. In the hypoxia area, batimastat inhibited the activity of MMPs, weakened the angiogenesis of tumor vascular system and migration of HCC cells. HCC cells could not escape from hypoxia area and tumor angiogenesis inhibited could not supply sufficient nutrients and O2 to residual HCC cells. With the help of batimastat, the killing effect of chemotherapeutic drugs might be enhanced. The rate of complete necrosis of HCC lesion might be increased and local recurrence and metastasis of HCC might be reduced. The hypothesis might increase the clinical efficacy of TACE and improve the prognosis of HCC patients.

