28192185
2017 Jul
Background & aims:Assessment of long-term outcome is required in hepatitis C virus (HCV)-infected patients with cirrhosis, who have been successfully treated for Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer (BCLC) stage A hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). However, problems arise due to the lack of models accounting for early changes during follow-up. The aim of this study was to estimate the impact of early events (HCC recurrence or hepatic decompensation within 12months of complete radiological response) on 5-year overall survival (OS) in a large cohort of patients with HCV and cirrhosis, successfully treated HCC.Methods:A total of 328 consecutive Caucasian patients with HCV-related cirrhosis and BCLC stage 0/A HCC who had complete radiological response after curative resection or thermal ablation were prospectively recruited to this study. Primary endpoint of the study was 5-year OS. Independent baseline and time-dependent predictors of 5-year OS were identified by Cox model.Results:The observed 5-year survival rate was 44%. The observed HCC early recurrence and early hepatic decompensation rate were 21% and 10%, respectively. Early hepatic decompensation (Hazard Ratio [HR] 7.52; 95% confidence intervals (CI): 1.23-13.48) and HCC early recurrence as time-dependent covariates (HR 2.50; 95%CI: 1.23-5.05), presence of esophageal varices at baseline (HR 1.66; 95% CI: 1.02-2.70) and age (HR 1.04; 95% CI: 1.02-1.07) were significantly associated with the 5-year OS.Conclusion:Survival in HCV-infected patients with cirrhosis and successfully treated HCC is influenced by early hepatic decompensation. Our study indirectly suggests that direct-acting antiviral agents could improve OS of HCC patients through long-term preservation of liver function, resulting in a lower cirrhosis-related mortality and a greater change of receiving curative treatments.Lay summary:Survival in hepatitis C virus (HCV) infected patients with cirrhosis and successfully treated hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), is mainly influenced by early hepatic decompensation. HCV eradication after treatment with new direct-acting antiviral agents could improve overall survival of HCC patients through long-term preservation of liver function.
Antiviral agents; Carcinoma, hepatocellular; Hepatic decompensation; Hepatitis C; Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC); Liver cirrhosis; Overall survival; Prognosis; Recurrences; Survival rate; Sustained virological response.
