28257591
2017 Jul
All-oral direct acting antivirals (DAAs) have been shown to have high safety and efficacy in treating patients with hepatitis C virus (HCV) awaiting liver transplant (LT). However, there is limited empirical evidence comparing the health and economic outcomes associated with treating patients pre-LT versus post-LT. The objective of this study was to analyze the cost-effectiveness of pre-LT versus post-LT treatment with an all-oral DAA regimen among HCV patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) or decompensated cirrhosis (DCC). We constructed decision-analytic Markov models of the natural disease progression of HCV in HCC patients and DCC patients waitlisted for LT. The model followed hypothetical cohorts of 1,000 patients with a mean age of 50 over a 30-year time horizon from a third-party US payer perspective and estimated their health and cost outcomes based on pre-LT versus post-LT treatment with an all-oral DAA regimen. Transition probabilities and utilities were based on the literature and hepatologist consensus. Sustained virological response rates were sourced from ASTRAL-4, SOLAR-1, and SOLAR-2. Costs were sourced from RedBook, Medicare fee schedules, and published literature. In the HCC analysis, the pre-LT treatment strategy resulted in 11.48 per-patient quality-adjusted life years and $365,948 per patient lifetime costs versus 10.39 and $283,696, respectively, in the post-LT arm. In the DCC analysis, the pre-LT treatment strategy resulted in 9.27 per-patient quality-adjusted life years and $304,800 per patient lifetime costs versus 8.7 and $283,789, respectively, in the post-LT arm. As such, the pre-LT treatment strategy was found to be the most cost-effective in both populations with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $74,255 (HCC) and $36,583 (DCC). Sensitivity and scenario analyses showed that results were most sensitive to the utility of patients post-LT, treatment sustained virological response rates, LT costs, and baseline Model for End-Stage Liver Disease score (DCC analysis only).Conclusion:The timing of initiation of antiviral treatment for HCV patients with HCC or DCC relative to LT is an important area of clinical and policy research; our results indicate that pre-LT treatment with a highly effective, all-oral DAA regimen provides the best health outcomes and is the most cost-effective strategy for the treatment of HCV patients with HCC or DCC waitlisted for LT. (Hepatology 2017;66:46-56).

