28437625
2017 Jul
It is an ambitious target to improve overall Hepatocellular Carcinoma therapeutic effects. Recently, MW ablation has emerged as a powerful thermal ablation technique, affording favorable survival with excellent local tumor control. To achieve better therapeutic effects of MW ablation, MW sensitizers are prepared for enhanced MW ablation to preferentially heat tumor territory. However, it is still not practicable for treatment of the orthotopic transplantation tumor. Herein, biocompatible and degradable methoxy poly(ethylene glycol)-poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) (mPEG-PLGA) microcapsules with hierarchical structure have been designed for microwave-induced tumor therapy. Chemical drug doxorubicin hydrochloride (DOX·HCl), microwave (MW) sensitizers and CT imaging contrast MoS2 nanosheets and MR imaging contrast Fe3O4 nanoparticles are co-incorporated into the microcapsules. In vitro/vivo MR/CT dual-modal imaging results prove the potential application for guiding synergetic therapy and predicting post-therapy tumor progression in the orthotopic transplantation tumor model. After blocking the tumor-feeding arteries, these microcapsules not only exclude the cooling effect by cutting off the blood flow but also enhance MW heating conversion at tumor site. The focused MW heating makes microcapsules mollescent or ruptured and releases DOX·HCl from the microcapsules, achieving the controlled release of drugs for chemical therapy. Compared with MW ablation, 29.4% increase of necrosis diameter of normal liver in rabbit is obtained under MW ablation combined with transcatheter arterial blocking, and the average size of necrosis and inhibition rate of VX-2 liver orthotopic transplantation tumor in rabbit has increased by 129.33% and 73.46%. Moreover, it is proved that the superselectively arterial administration of the as-prepared microcapsules has no recognizable toxicity on the animals. Therefore, this research provides a novel strategy for the construction of MW-induced microcapsules for orthotopic transplantation tumor ablation with the properties of MW sensitizing, superselective arterial blocking, control release and enhanced accumulation of DOX·HCl, and MR/CT dual-modal imaging, which exhibits great potential applications in the field of HCC therapy.
Ablation; Hepatocellular Carcinoma; Microcapsules; Microwave; Sensitive.
