29081216
2018 Jul
Purpose:Studies have found that long noncoding RNA HEIH (lncRNA-HEIH) is upregulated and facilitates hepatocellular carcinoma tumor growth. However, its clinical significances, roles, and action mechanism in colorectal cancer (CRC) remains unidentified.Materials and methods:lncRNA-HEIH expression in CRC tissues and cell lines was measured by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. Cell CountingKit-8, ethynyl deoxyuridine incorporation assay, terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling staining, and nude mice xenografts assays were performed to investigate the roles of lncRNA-HEIH. RNA pull-down, RNA immunoprecipitation, chromatin immunoprecipitation, and luciferase reporter assays were performed to investigate the action mechanisms of lncRNA-HEIH.Results:In this study, we found that lncRNA-HEIH is significantly increased in CRC tissues and cell lines. lncRNA-HEIH expression is positively associated with tumor size, invasion depth, and poor prognosis of CRC patients. Enhanced expression of lncRNA-HEIH promotes CRC cell proliferation and decreases apoptosis in vitro, and promotes CRC tumor growth in vivo. Whereas knockdown of lncRNA-HEIH inhibits CRC cell proliferation and induces apoptosis in vitro, and suppresses CRC tumor growth in vivo. Mechanistically, lncRNA-HEIH physically binds to miR-939. The interaction between lncRNA-HEIH and miR-939 damages the binding between miR-939 and nuclear factor κB (NF-κB), increases the binding of NF-κB to Bcl-xL promoter, and promotes the transcription and expression of Bcl-xL. Moreover, Bcl-xL expression is positively associatedwith lncRNA-HEIH in CRC tissues. Blocking the interaction between lncRNA-HEIH and miR-939 abolishes the effects of lncRNA-HEIH on CRC tumorigenesis.Conclusion:This study demonstrated that lncRNA-HEIH promotes CRC tumorigenesis through counteracting miR-939‒mediated transcriptional repression of Bcl-xL, and suggested that lncRNA-HEIH may serve as a prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target for CRC.
Bcl-xL; Colorectal neoplasms; NF-κB; Tumorigenesis; miR-939; Long noncoding RNA.
