29242403
2018 Jul
When evaluating 18F-FDG PET images with the Deauville score (DS), the quantification of tumor and reference organs limits the problem of optical misinterpretation. Compared with conventional reconstruction algorithms, point-spread function (PSF) modeling increases SUVs significantly in tumors but only moderately in the liver, which could affect the DS. We investigated whether the choice of the reconstruction algorithm affects the DS and whether discordance affects the capability of 18F-FDG PET to stratify lymphoma patients. Methods: Overall, 126 patients with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma were included (56 female and 70 male; median age, 65 y; range, 20-88 y). PET data were reconstructed with the unfiltered PSF method. Additionally, a 6-mm filter was applied to PSF images to meet the requirements of the EANM Research Ltd. (EARL) harmonization program from the European Association of Nuclear Medicine (EANM) (PSFEARL). One hundred interim PET (i-PET) and 95 end-of-treatment PET (EoT-PET) studies were analyzed. SUVmax in the liver and aorta was determined using automatic volumes of interest and compared with SUVmax in the residual mass with the highest 18F-FDG uptake. Results: For i-PET, using PSF and PSFEARL, we classified patients as responders and nonresponders in 60 and 40 cases versus 63 and 37 cases, respectively. Five cases of major discordance (5.0%) occurred (i.e., changes from responder to nonresponder). For Eot-PET, patients were classified using PSF and PSFEARL as responders and nonresponders in 69 and 26 cases versus 72 and 23 cases, respectively. Three cases of major discordance (3.2%) occurred. Concordance (Cohen unweighted κ) between the PSF and the PSFEARL DS was 0.82 (95% confidence interval, 0.73-0.91) for i-PET and 0.89 (95% confidence interval, 0.81-0.96) for EoT-PET. The median follow-up periods were 28.4 and 27.4 mo for i-PET and EoT-PET, respectively. Kaplan-Meier analysis showed statistically significant differences in progression-free survival and overall survival among responders and nonresponders no matter which reconstruction was used for i-PET and EoT-PET. Conclusion: Neither DS nor risk stratification of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma patients is affected by the choice of PET reconstruction. Specifically, the use of PSF is not an issue in routine clinical processes or in multicenter trials. These findings have to be confirmed in escalation and deescalation procedures based on early i-PET.
Deauville score; PET; end-of-treatment; interim; lymphoma; reconstruction algorithm.
