30109182
2018 Jul
Whether and how garlic-derived S-allylmercaptocysteine (SAMC) inhibits hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is largely unknown. In the current study, the role of low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR)-related protein 6 (LRP6) in HCC progression and the anti-HCC mechanism of SAMC was examined in clinical sample, cell model and xenograft/orthotopic mouse models. We demonstrated that SAMC inhibited cell proliferation and tumorigenesis, while induced apoptosis of human HCC cells without influencing normal hepatocytes. SAMC directly interacted with Wnt-pathway co-receptor LRP6 on the cell membrane. LRP6 was frequently over-expressed in the tumor tissue of human HCC patients (66.7% of 48 patients) and its over-expression only correlated with the over-expression of β-catenin, but not with age, gender, tumor size, stage and metastasis. Deficiency or over-expression of LRP6 in hepatoma cells could partly mimic or counteract the anti-tumor properties of SAMC, respectively. In vivo administration of SAMC significantly suppressed the growth of Huh-7 xenograft/orthotopic HCC tumor without causing undesirable side effects. In addition, stable down-regulation of LRP6 in Huh-7 facilitated the anti-HCC effects of SAMC. In conclusion, LRP6 can be a potential therapeutic target of HCC. SAMC is a promising specific anti-tumor agent for treating HCC subtypes with Wnt activation at the hepatoma cell surface.
Axin1, axis inhibition protein 1; DKK-1, Dickkopf Wnt signaling pathway inhibitor 1; DVL2, disheveled 2; FADD, Fas-associated protein with death domain; HCC; HCC, hepatocellular carcinoma; Human; KD, knock-down; LDH, lactate dehydrogenase; LRP6; LRP6, low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR)-related protein 6; MCL-1, myeloid cell leukemin-1; NAFLD, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease; Nude mice; PCNA, proliferating cell nuclear antigen; S-allylmercaptocysteine; SAC, S-allylcysteine; SAMC, S-allylmercaptocysteine; SPR, surface plasmon resonance; TCF/LEF, T-cell factor/lymphoid enhancing factor; TSA, thermal shift assay; Tm, melting temperature; Wnt.
