23448666
2013 May
Objectives:To determine the spectrum of disease among non-urgent referrals to a tertiary hospital hepatology outpatient clinic, assess the adequacy of referral information in terms of risk stratification and determine whether a specifically designed referral template altered urgency for specialist assessment.Methods:A snapshot of the waiting list of a hepatology clinic at a tertiary hospital was taken from the scheduling database. Information was retrieved from referrals and attached investigations. Updated information was requested from subjects and their current general practitioner.Results:Hepatitis C virus accounted for 68.7% of the 1223 reviewed referrals. Clinical information provided by referring clinicians was often incomplete. Provision of updated information identified the presence of comorbidities (obesity, 'heavy' alcohol consumption, mental health issues) and altered the need or urgency for specialist assessment in 22% of cases.Conclusions:Hepatitis C virus accounts for the majority of non-urgent referrals waiting to access hepatology outpatient consultations. Using a standardised assessment form as part of the referral process provides more information on comorbidities and risk factors and facilitates more accurate triaging of clinical urgency. Wider adoption of this strategy may increase appropriate access to hepatology services and reduce the future burden of cirrhosis and hepatocellular cancer. WHAT IS KNOWN ABOUT THE TOPIC? Little published data are available that describe the content and standard of hepatology referrals, or the urgency with which these patients need to be reviewed. Inadequate clinical information impairs the ability to accurately triage referrals and may lead to delays in access. WHAT DOES THE PAPER ADD? Almost 70% of reviewed referrals were for management of patients with hepatitis C virus infection, confirming this condition remains a major priority area in liver disease. Clinical information provided by referring clinicians was often incomplete, impairing the ability to accurately triage referrals. Only a minority of referrals provided information about relevant comorbidities (alcohol intake, injecting drug use, mental health issues and obesity) that negatively impact on the progression of liver disease or the response to antiviral treatment. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTITIONERS? Hepatitis C virus remains a major health priority area in liver disease, increasing the future burden of cirrhosis and hepatocellular cancer. Many referred patients have comorbidities that increase their risk of progressive liver disease and related complications. Strategies to increase recognition and management of liver disease and its comorbidities in the community are required. The use of a standardised assessment form in referrals to hepatology outpatient services may assist with triaging of patients and improve access to appropriate care.

