24413224
2014 Dec
Background:Hepatic percutaneous radiofrequency ablation (RFA) is usually performed with the patient under deep intravenous (i.v.) sedation or general anesthesia. Nonetheless, many patients report pain during and/or after the procedure.Purpose:To perform a prospective study of pain control obtained by the i.v. one-shot delivery and the continuous i.v. infusion of fentanyl in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) treated by RFA.Material and methods:Between April 2007 and March 2010, 83 patients with 106 HCCs underwent percutaneous RFA. All HCCs were addressed by computed tomography (CT)-guided percutaneous RFA performed within 5 h of embolization of the tumor vessels with iodized oil and gelatin sponges. Standard anesthesia consisted of 10 mL of 1% lidocaine injected locally. For conscious sedation, group one patients (n = 41) were injected i.v. with 100 µg of fentanyl before and 100 µg of fentanyl 30 min after percutaneous RFA. In group two (n = 42) we delivered fentanyl by continuous i.v. infusion at 100 µg/h during RFA. Upon request, patients in both groups also received 5 mg of diazepam i.v. for pain during the RFA procedure. The severity of pain experienced by all patients was evaluated on a visual analogue scale (VAS) and complications elicited by the anesthesia regimens were recorded. We also assessed the effectiveness of the treatment on sequential follow-up CT and/or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) at 3-month intervals.Results:Percutaneous RFA was technically successful in all 83 patients. Two patients in group one (4.8%) and one patient in group two (2.4%) manifested residual enhancement 3 months post RFA. There was no significant difference in the local recurrence rate between the two groups. At 4.0 ± 1.8 for group one and 3.4 ± 1.9 for group two, the VAS score was not significantly different. Major fentanyl or diazepam toxicity was recorded in 11 patients (24.4%) in group one and two patients (4.8%) in group two; the difference was statistically significant (P Conclusion:The continuous infusion of fentanyl provided effective and safe analgesia in HCC patients undergoing percutaneous RFA.
Pain control; hepatocellular carcinoma; intravenous fentanyl delivery; percutaneous radiofrequency ablation.
