25544875
2014 Dec 27
Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a major cause of liver disease around the world. It includes a spectrum of conditions from simple steatosis to non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) and can lead to fibrosis, cirrhosis, liver failure, and/or hepatocellular carcinoma. NAFLD is also associated with other medical conditions such as obesity, diabetes mellitus (DM), metabolic syndrome, hypertension, insulin resistance, hyperlipidemia, and cardiovascular disease (CVD). In diabetes, chronic hyperglycemia contributes to the development of both macro- and microvascular conditions through a variety of metabolic pathways. Thus, it can cause a variety of metabolic and hemodynamic conditions, including upregulated advanced glycation end-products (AGEs) synthesis. In our previous study, the most abundant type of toxic AGEs (TAGE); i.e., glyceraldehyde-derived AGEs, were found to make a significant contribution to the pathogenesis of DM-induced angiopathy. Furthermore, accumulating evidence suggests that the binding of TAGE with their receptor (RAGE) induces oxidative damage, promotes inflammation, and causes changes in intracellular signaling and the expression levels of certain genes in various cell populations including hepatocytes and hepatic stellate cells. All of these effects could facilitate the pathogenesis of hypertension, cancer, diabetic vascular complications, CVD, dementia, and NASH. Thus, inhibiting TAGE synthesis, preventing TAGE from binding to RAGE, and downregulating RAGE expression and/or the expression of associated effector molecules all have potential as therapeutic strategies against NASH. Here, we examine the contributions of RAGE and TAGE to various conditions and novel treatments that target them in order to prevent the development and/or progression of NASH.
Advanced glycation end-products; Cardiovascular disease; Diabetes mellitus; Dietary advanced glycation end-products; Dietary fructose; Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease; Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis; Receptor for advanced glycation end-products; Toxic advanced glycation end-products; Toxic advanced glycation end-products-receptor for advanced glycation end-products system.
