25876355
2014 Dec
Objective:To observe the effects of acupuncture at "Feishu" (BL 13) and "Lingtai" (GV 10) on distribution taxis of paclitaxel in mice with lung cancer to discuss targeted relationship between acupoints and corresponding viscera.Methods:According to randomized digital table, 315 SPF-grade BALB/C female mice were divided into 7 groups: blank group (group A), model group (group B), medication group (group C), acupuncture at non-acupoint group (group D), acupuncture at Feishu group (group E), acupuncture at Lingtai group (group F) and acupuncture at Feishu and Lingtai group (group G), 45 mice in each one. Except the blank group, the remaining groups were treated with N-nitroso-tris-chloroethyl urea (NTCU) to establish the model of squamous-cell carcinoma. After model establishment, group A, group B and group C were not treated with acupuncture; group A and group B were treated with intraperitoneal injection of 0.9% sodium chlorvde solution by 6 mL/kg while group C was treated with intraperitoneal injection of paclitaxel by 6 mL/kg. The group D, group E, group F and group G were treated with acupuncture at non-acupoint, "Feishu" (BL 13), "Lingtai" (GV 10) and "Feishu" (BL 13) plus "Lingtai" (GV 10), respectively, then were intraperitoneally injected with paclitaxel by 6 mL/kg. The treatment was all given once a day for continuous 10 days. 15 min, 30 min, 1 h, 2 h, 8 h, 12 h and 24 h after the treatments, 6 mice in each group were randomly selected and sacrificed to collect samples of lung, liver, spleen, kidney and heart, etc. High performance liquid chromatography was applied to measure the concentration of paclitaxel in each organ (lung, liver, spleen, kidney and heart) at different time points.Results:(1) The content of paclitaxel in lung, kidney and heart reached the peak at 2 h, then decreased significantly in group C, group D, group E, group F and group G; the content of paclitaxel in spleen showed downtrend at each time point. The content of paclitaxel in liver reached the peak at 2 h in group C and group D; the content of paclitaxel reached the peak at 8 h in group E, group F and group G. (2) The content of paclitaxel in lung in group E and group G was higher than that in group C and group D at each time point (all P < 0.01); the content of paclitaxel in lung in group F was higher than that in group C (P < 0.01) and group D (P < 0.01) only at time point of 2 h. The content of paclitaxel in lung in group G was higher than that in group F at each time point (all P < 0.05). There was no statistical difference between group G and group E (all P > 0.05).Conclusion:Acupuncture at "Feishu" (BL 13) and "Lingtai" (GV 10) could influ- ence the metabolism of paclitaxel in lung-cancer mice, leading to distribution change in each organ. As a result, it could cause targeting effects, which is more significant at "Feishu" (BL 13) and "Lingtai" (GV 10).

