29203284
2018 Apr
Background:Associating liver partition and portal vein ligation for staged hepatectomy (ALPPS) is an innovative, 2-staged hepatectomy which has elicited controversy within the international hepatobiliary community. Uptake of ALPPS has been limited due to concerns related to evidence of high morbidity and mortality, and scant oncologic and outcome data on quality of life (Qol). Demonstrating reasonable long-term benefits with a short-term risk is necessary to support more widespread endorsement of ALPPS. Our aim was to describe the intermediate-term survival and patient-reported quality of life outcomes after an ALPPS.Methods:Prospectively collected data from 2 high-volume ALPPS centers, who were pioneers with the technique, were combined and analyzed for disease-free and overall survival from date of the ALLPS. Only patients treated for colorectal liver metastases with >6 month postoperative follow-up were included. All patients had bilateral colorectal liver metastases with an initially unresectable tumor load, and received preoperative chemotherapy. Information concerning the demographics of the patients, characteristics of the tumor, and treatment were analyzed. The well-validated European Organization for Research and Treatment for Cancer Quality of Life Core Questionnaire version 3.0 questionnaire was used to assess patient quality of life.Results:A total of 58 patients underwent ALPPS for colorectal liver metastases, and 47 patients met our inclusion criteria. There were no perioperative mortalities, and the rate of severe complications was 21%. At 3 years post-ALPPS, the overall survival was 50%, while the disease-free survival was 13%. The commonest site of first recurrence was the liver alone (38%). Patient-reported quality of life after ALPPS was similar to reference values for general population.Conclusion:In select patients operated at experienced centers, ALPPS results in low perioperative risk, satisfactory overall survival, and excellent quality of life. Hepatic recurrence and not systemic recurrence is the most common site of relapse after ALPPS.

