29706895
2018 Apr 12
The liver is to date the best example of a sexually dimorphic non-reproductive organ. Over 1,000 genes are differentially expressed between sexes indicating that female and male livers are two metabolically distinct organs. The spectrum of liver diseases is broad and is usually prevalent in one or the other sex, with different contributing genetic and environmental factors. It is thus difficult to predict individual's disease outcomes and treatment options. Systems approaches including mathematical modeling can aid importantly in understanding the multifactorial liver disease etiology leading toward tailored diagnostics, prognostics and therapy. The currently established computational models of hepatic metabolism that have proven to be essential for understanding of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) are limited to the description of gender-independent response or reflect solely the response of the males. Herein we present LiverSex, the first sex-based multi-tissue and multi-level liver metabolic computational model. The model was constructed based on in silico liver model SteatoNet and the object-oriented modeling. The crucial factor in adaptation of liver metabolism to the sex is the inclusion of estrogen and androgen receptor responses to respective hormones and the link to sex-differences in growth hormone release. The model was extensively validated on literature data and experimental data obtained from wild type C57BL/6 mice fed with regular chow and western diet. These experimental results show extensive sex-dependent changes and could not be reproduced in silico with the uniform model SteatoNet. LiverSex represents the first large-scale liver metabolic model, which allows a detailed insight into the sex-dependent complex liver pathologies, and how the genetic and environmental factors interact with the sex in disease appearance and progression. We used the model to identify the most important sex-dependent metabolic pathways, which are involved in accumulation of triglycerides representing initial steps of NAFLD. We identified PGC1A, PPARα, FXR, and LXR as regulatory factors that could become important in sex-dependent personalized treatment of NAFLD.
NAFLD; hepatic metabolism; large-scale metabolic model; liver; sexual dimorphism; systems medicine.
