21434975
2011 Aug
What is already known about this subject:OATP1B1 is important for hepatic uptake of rosuvastatin and BCRP is important for rosuvastatin absorption and elimination. Eltrombopag inhibits OATP1B1 and BCRP in vitro at clinically relevant concentrations. Inhibition of these transporters could change cholesterol-lowering efficacy and increase the risk of exposure-dependent toxicities. To determine if co-administration of eltrombopag with rosuvastatin alters plasma rosuvastatin exposure, an open-label study was conducted in 42 healthy adult subjects.What this study adds:Concomitant administration of eltrombopag with rosuvastatin was associated with increased rosuvastatin exposure via inhibition of drug transporters. The therapeutic index of HMG Co-A reductase inhibitors may be reduced by the concomitant use of eltrombopag. In subjects taking eltrombopag, a reduced dose of HMG Co-A reductase inhibitors may be needed.Aim:Eltrombopag, an oral, nonpeptide thrombopoietin receptor agonist, inhibits the organic anion transporting polypeptide 1B1 (OATP1B1) and breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) in vitro. OATP1B1 is important for hepatic uptake of rosuvastatin and inhibition of this transporter could reduce cholesterol-lowering efficacy and increase the risk of exposure-dependent toxicities. In contrast, BCRP is an efflux transporter and inhibition of this transporter could increase both hepatic and plasma rosuvastatin concentrations, resulting in increased efficacy and toxicity. To determine if co-administration of eltrombopag with rosuvastatin alters plasma rosuvastatin exposure, an open-label study was conducted in 42 healthy adult subjects.Methods:Subjects received rosuvastatin and eltrombopag orally: day 1, rosuvastatin 10 mg single dose; days 6 to 9, eltrombopag 75 mg once daily; day 10, eltrombopag 75 mg once daily and rosuvastatin 10 mg single dose. Adverse event assessments were performed daily and at the follow-up visit. Plasma samples for pharmacokinetic analysis were collected days 1 to 5 and days 10 to 14.Results:Co-administration of eltrombopag with rosuvastatin increased geometric mean (90% confidence interval) plasma rosuvastatin AUC(0,∞) by 55% (42%, 69%) and C(max) by 103% (82%, 126%) in the overall study population, with a larger interaction in the non-Asian compared with Asian subjects.Conclusions:Concomitant administration of eltrombopag with rosuvastatin was associated with increased rosuvastatin exposure. The therapeutic index of HMG Co-A reductase inhibitors may be reduced by the concomitant use of eltrombopag. In subjects taking eltrombopag, a reduced dose of HMG Co-A reductase inhibitors may be needed.

