28254663
2017 May
Aim:The natural terpenoid compound was explored in vitro and in vivo to investigate the anti-HCC properties.Methods:For our study we used Abisilin®- a novel natural pharmacological terpenoid compound extracted and purified from coniferous Pinaceae trees. Anti-tumorigenic properties of different concentrations of Abisilin® were tested on murine hepatoma Hepa 1-6 cell lines. The analysis of proliferation and apoptosis was performed using immunofluorescence microscopy, FACS and qPCR. As an in vivo approach, we tested Abisilin® (400mg/kg/day, 14 days, orally) in xenograft mouse models of liver cancer and investigated tumor growth, proliferation, apoptosis and angiogenesis by means of Western blotting, immunofluorescence microscopy and qPCR.Results:Application of Abisilin® for 24h at a dosage ranging from 0.03 to 0.045mg significantly reduced the number of viable Hepa 1-6 cells and induced apoptotic cell death with microscopic evidence of changes in cell morphology, and positive TUNEL, cleaved caspase 3 and Annexin V/Propidium Iodide (PI) stainings. Furthermore, treatment with Abisilin® strongly inhibited proliferation, impaired mitosis and prompted cell cycle arrest by down-regulation of the Cyclin D1, E1 and A2 expression levels. In Hepa 1-6 xenograft in vivo model, Abisilin® considerably decreased the xenograft tumor size and tumor volume. Consistently with in vitro Abisilin® administration elicited apoptosis and inhibit proliferation in the xenograft tumor. We also found that Abisilin® remarkably decrease microvessel density, diminished tumor angiogenesis and reduced expression of ICAM-1. Moreover, the expression of pAMPK, a cellular energy sensor, was up-regulated after Abisilin® application.Conclusions:Anti-proliferative, pro-apoptotic activity and anti-angiogenic potential of natural conifer terpenoids might turn these compounds into an attractive drug candidate for combination therapy against liver cancer.
Conifer terpenoids; Hepa 1–6 cells; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Xenograft model.
