28475013
2017 May
Our study aims to evaluate the efficacy of transcatheter arterial chemoembolization in the treatment of patients with liver metastasis using integrated 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography/computed tomography. A total of 97 liver metastasis patients treated by transcatheter arterial chemoembolization were enrolled in this study. The 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography/computed tomography images of liver metastasis patients were collected before and after transcatheter arterial chemoembolization treatment. The efficacy of transcatheter arterial chemoembolization for the treatment of liver metastasis was evaluated according to the revised Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors guidelines. The receiver operating characteristic curve analysis was used to determine cut-off values of 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography parameters (Tsuvmax, Tsuvmax/Lsuvmax, and Tsuvmax/Lsuvmean) for predicting the efficacy of transcatheter arterial chemoembolization. Progression-free survival and the incidence of postoperative complications were compared. Correlation of Tsuvmax, Tsuvmax/Lsuvmax, and Tsuvmax/Lsuvmean with blood supply and lipiodol deposition in the lesion was analyzed. Among three 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography parameters, the receiver operating characteristic analysis showed that Tsuvmax/Lsuvmax with a cut-off value of 3.56 was the best predictor of transcatheter arterial chemoembolization efficacy. According to the cut-off value of Tsuvmax/Lsuvmax, liver metastasis patients were divided into the Tsuvmax/Lsuvmax ≤ 3.56 and Tsuvmax/Lsuvmax > 3.56 groups. Compared with the Tsuvmax/Lsuvmax > 3.56 group, the Tsuvmax/Lsuvmax ≤ 3.56 group showed a longer progression-free survival and a lower incidence of postoperative complications. The Tsuvmax, Tsuvmax/Lsuvmax, and Tsuvmax/Lsuvmean in the lesion with abundant blood supply were significantly lower than those in peripheral liver parenchyma, while the Tsuvmax, Tsuvmax/Lsuvmax, and Tsuvmax/Lsuvmean in the lesion with lack of blood supply were significantly higher than those in peripheral liver parenchyma. Spearman correlation analysis indicated that lipiodol deposition in the lesion was positively correlated with the Tsuvmax, Tsuvmax/Lsuvmax, and Tsuvmax/Lsuvmean. The Tsuvmax/Lsuvmax of 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography/computed tomography may be a good tool for predicting the blood supply and efficacy of transcatheter arterial chemoembolization for patients with liver metastasis.
18F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography/computed tomography; blood supply; complication; efficacy; lipiodol deposition; liver metastasis; progression-free survival; transcatheter arterial chemoembolization.
