28535652
2017 May 23
Objective: To evaluate the correlation between bile duct injury after transcatheter arterial chemoembolization and the level of hepatic arterial embolization, and to analyze the clinical prognosis of hepatocellular carcinoma patients. Methods: From January18, 2012 to December18, 2014, 21 patients underwent TACE for HCC were retrospectively reviewed, including patients' clinical and pathological data. The clinical outcome and relevant factors for bile duct injury were analyzed. Results: A total of 21 patients were identified with bile duct injury at our single institution. All patients received 48 TACE treatments, including proper hepatic artery (14), left hepatic artery (3), the right hepatic artery (10), left and right hepatic artery (9) and tumor artery branches (12). Thirty-five bile duct injury occurred in 21 patients: 7 cases was close to the tumor, 2 distant to the tumor, 7 at right liver, 2 left liver, 11 both lobes of liver and 6 hepatic hilar. After medical conservative treatment and biliary tract inside and outside drainage, liver function of 10 cases were improved. In four patients with hepatic bile duct stricture and biloma, the effect of drainage was not obvious, which subsequently caused biliary complications such as infection, gallbladder and common bile duct stones. Three patients with liver cirrhosis at decompensation stage developed complications, and one of them died of hepatic encephalopathy. Four patients experienced tumor recurrence during the follow-up period. Conclusions: The location of bile duct injury after transcatheter arterial chemoembolization is quite consistent with the level of hepatic arterial embolization. There may be some blood vessels mainly involved in blood supply of biliary duct. Complete embolism of these vessels may lead to bile duct injuries. Biliary drainage is ineffective in patients with hilar bile duct stricture, and can lead to complications of biliary tract later on.
Bile duct injury; Complication; Liver neoplasms; Transcatheter arterial chemoembolization.
