28552096
2017 May
Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is defined as hepatic steatosis exceeding 5% of hepatocytes with no other reason for hepatic fat accumulation. The association between NAFLD and type 2 diabetes is strong. Accordingly, up to 70% of obese patients with type 2 diabetes have NAFLD. The spectrum of NAFLD ranges from simple steatosis to non-alcoholic steatohepatitis with variable degrees of fibrosis and cirrhosis. Cirrhosis is the end-stage of chronic liver disease and is characterised by diffuse fibrosis and nodular regeneration of hepatocytes. Alcoholic liver disease and NAFLD are the most common aetiologies of cirrhosis. The WHO estimates that 70% of patients with cirrhosis have impaired glucose tolerance and 30% have manifest diabetes. The latter is termed hepatic diabetes and is associated with increased complications to cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. The objective of this thesis was to study the impact of liver dysfunction on incretin and glucagon (patho)physiology in relation to glucose metabolism. We hypothesised that NAFLD patients with normal glucose tolerance would develop reduced incretin effect and that NAFLD would worsen the incretin effect in patients with existing type 2 diabetes. Thus, in study I, we investigated the incretin effect and glucagon secretion in patients with NAFLD with and without type 2 diabetes compared to controls. We also hypothesised that the incretin effect would be disturbed in non-diabetic patients with more severe liver disease. Hence, the objective of study II was to investigate the incretin effect in patients with cirrhosis. Finally, the hypothesis in study III was that an impaired glucagonostatic effect of GLP-1 contributes to the hyperglucagonaemia of patients with liver disease. We therefore explored the glucagonostatic properties of GLP-1 in non-diabetic patients with NAFLD. The results of study I show that patients with NAFLD have normal secretion of GLP-1 and GIP and a reduced incretin effect. The groups with type 2 diabetes have the lowest incretion effect. We also find that NAFLD patients have high fasting glucagon concentrations regardless of their glucose (in)tolerance. We further demonstrated that patients with normal glucose tolerance and NAFLD have preserved glucagon suppression to both oral and intravenous glucose. In study II, we find that non-diabetic patients with cirrhosis have elevated concentrations of GLP-1 and GIP and a reduced incretin effect. Patients with cirrhosis also have fasting hyperglucagonaemia, but show intact glucagon suppression during both oral and intravenous glucose administration. Finally, study III demonstrates that normal glucose tolerant NAFLD patients had preserved glucagonostatic effect of GLP-1. In conclusion, our studies offer important information regarding the pathophysiology of glucose intolerance in patients with liver disease. We demonstrate that patients with NAFLD, in spite of normal glucose tolerance, have reduced incretin effect that is further aggravated by type 2 diabetes. We also find fasting hyperglucagonaemia in NAFLD patients, independently of type 2 diabetes. We show that cirrhosis is associated with impaired handling of oral glucose and reduced incretin effect. Finally, we find a preserved glucagonostatic effect of GLP-1 in patients with NAFLD, in spite of their hyperglucagonaemia. In light of our findings, the insulinotropic and glucagonostatic effects of GLP-1 receptor agonists might prove beneficial in patients with liver disease.

