28658824
2017 May
Introduction:Non Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease (NAFLD) and Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus (T2DM) are two common problems affecting global health as these two conditions can influence each other. There is very little information about the possible association between NAFLD and diabetic microvascular complications such as diabetic nephropathy.Aim:The aim of this study was to evaluate the prevalence of NAFLD in patients with T2DM and to investigate the association between NAFLD and diabetic nephropathy in these patients.Materials and methods:This cross-sectional study was conducted on 255 patients with T2DM, with minimum age being 30 years. Hepatic ultrasonography using a 3.5 MHz probe was performed in all subjects. Fatty liver based on standard criteria was diagnosed with liver brightness, contrast between the echogenicity of the liver, kidneys and the blood vessels fading rate. Screening for microalbuminuria was performed by the preferred method, measurement of the Urine Albumin-To-Creatinine (UACR) ratio in a random spot collection.Results:In this study, 255 patients with T2DM were enrolled of which 173 (68%) were females and 82 (32%) were males. Of these 221 subjects (86.66%) had NAFLD. Diabetic nephropathy was observed among 33% of individuals, microalbuminuria among 32% and macroalbuminuria in 10% of all individuals. Duration of diabetes, Body Mass Index (BMI), hypertriglyceridemia, and HbA1c were significantly associated with incidence of NAFLD. Also, duration of diabetes and HbA1c were significantly associated with diabetic nephropathy in patients with T2DM.Conclusion:NAFLD in patients with T2DM is extremely common. NAFLD is not considered as a risk factor for diabetic nephropathy. To better understand the pathogenesis of NAFLD and its causal relationship with complications of diabetes such as diabetic nephropathy, prospective studies and long term follow up are needed.
Hepatocellular carcinoma; Microvascular complications; Non alcoholic steatohepatitis.
