19900579
2010 Jan
Opisthorchis viverrini is a carcinogenic foodborne trematode endemic in Southeast Asia especially in Thailand and the Lao People's Democratic Republic. Opisthorchiasis causes hepatobiliary diseases and cholangiocarcinoma (bile duct cancer). Currently there is substantial evidence on genetic variation of O. viverrini but the information on population genetic structure is lacking. Because microsatellite DNA of this parasite is not available, we for the first time isolated and utilized microsatellite DNA as genetic markers to examine genetic diversity and the population structure of O. viverrini. Partial genomic DNA libraries were constructed by conventional and enrichment methods which yielded microsatellite-containing clones of 0.18-0.25% and 16.84%, respectively. Within 41 microsatellite loci isolated 36.59% were perfect, 60.98% were interrupted and 2.44% were compound microsatellites. The CA repetitions were the most frequent, followed by GT and CAT. Primers specific to the flanking regions of 12 microsatellite loci were developed to genotype 150 O. viverrini individuals from geographical localities in Thailand and Lao PDR. Allele numbers per locus ranged from 2 to 15, with the mean expected heterozygosity of 0.03-0.66. Analyses of O. viverrini from 5 localities revealed a high level of genetic diversity and had significant deviation from Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium. Significant heterozygote deficiency as well as heterozygote excess was detected across all localities indicating the possibility of selfing (inbreeding) as a predominant reproductive mode. Significant genetic differentiation (F(ST)) was also detected between worms from different localities with varying levels of genetic heterogeneity. We discuss our results in terms of what these novel microsatellite markers reveal about the epidemiology and transmission dynamics of this medically important parasite, both in terms of the current study and their potential for future comprehensive population genetic studies O. viverrini sensu lato in Southeast Asia.

