20038323
2010 Jan
Background and objective:CT-guided microwave coagulation is a minimally invasive surgery for patients with liver cancer. Total intravenous anesthesia with propofol and fentanyl is commonly used. The depth of anesthesia during microwave coagulation for liver cancer is still monitored by clinical signs. There are few subjective and effective indicators. This study explored the application of Narcotrend-assisted "depth of anesthesia" monitoring on microwave coagulation for patients with liver cancer during total intravenous anesthesia with propofol and fentanyl.Methods:Forty liver cancer patients underwent CT-guided microwave coagulation were randomly assigned to receive Narcotrend index monitoring or standard clinical monitoring for depth of anesthesia with 20 patients in each group. All patients received total intravenous anesthesia with propofol and fentanyl. The depth of anesthesia for patients in the Narcotrend group was measured according to a Narcotrend index, which was maintained between D2 and E0. The depth of anesthesia for those in the standard clinical practice group was measured according to heart rate, mean arterial pressure, and patient movement. Changes of hemodynamics, the duration of the emergence from anesthesia, and the recovery of orientation were recorded. The doses of propofol and fentanyl, postoperative visual analogue scores (VAS), and the incidence of postoperative nausea and vomiting were also recorded.Results:There was no significant alteration in heart rate or mean arterial pressure between the two groups. Compared with other anesthetic stages, both heart rate and mean arterial pressure decreased during the induction of the anesthesia in the two groups(P<0.05). The doses of propofol were higher in the standard clinical practice group than in the Narcotrend group [(460+/-30) mg vs. (380+/-35) mg, P<0.01]. The duration of emergence and orientation were longer in the standard clinical practice group than in the Narcotrend group [(9.5+/-2.9) min vs. (4.9+/-2.2) min, P<0.01; (12.2+/-3.5) min vs. (6.6+/-3.2) min, P<0.01, respectively]. There was no difference in the dosage of fentanyl, VAS, or the incidence of postoperative nausea or vomiting between the two groups (P>0.05).Conclusion:For patients with liver cancer, monitoring the depth of anesthesia with Narcotrend on microwave coagulation can contribute to lower dosage of propofol and shorten duration of recovery during total intravenous anesthesia with propofol and fentanyl.

