21144834
2011 Jan 7
Synemin is a large intermediate filament protein that has been identified in all types of muscle cells. It plays a role in human muscle diseases; however, the role of synemin in tumor cell transformation has rarely been investigated. Because hepatocellular carcinoma cells are morphologically different from normal human hepatocytes, we hypothesized that altered synemin expression and cytoskeletal disorganization might underlie this pleomorphic transformation. To test this hypothesis, we studied synemin expression in hepatocellular carcinoma and liver tissues by immunohistochemistry and immunoblotting. In addition, we analyzed the expression level and organization of all cytoskeletal elements after synemin knock-down in human Chang liver cells. Previously we found that plectin knock-down in human Chang liver cells causes a reduction in cytokeratin 18 expression with effects on intermediate filament disorganization and altered cellular morphology. In this study we also compared the effects of synemin knock-down and plectin knock-down on the cytoskeleton expression and organization. The results revealed that synemin expression was down-regulated in human hepatocellular carcinoma compared with normal liver, which is similar to the plectin expression. Surprisingly, the expression of cytoskeletal elements (cytokeratin 18, actin and tubulin) was not influenced by synemin knock-down in human Chang liver cells. The organization of cytoskeletal networks was also unaltered after synemin knock-down. In conclusion, both plectin and synemin are down-regulated in human hepatocellular carcinoma in vivo and transformed human liver cell in vitro. However, the mechanism of cell transformation caused by synemin knock-down is different from that of plectin knock-down. Plectin, but not synemin, knock-down provoked liver cell transformation via suppressing cytokeratin 18 expression and disrupting intermediate filament networks. Synemin knock-down did not influence the cytoskeleton expression and organization of human Chang liver cells.

