28684184
2017 Oct
Previous studies have shown that contrast-enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) can be used quantitatively to analyze microcirculation blood perfusion in hepatocellular carcinoma patients. However, limited data have described the application of CEUS in hepatic microcirculation after liver ischemic-reperfusion injury (IRI). The purpose of this study was to explore the use of CEUS quantitatively to assess liver microcirculation after liver IRI. We randomly sorted 45 New Zealand rabbits into 3 groups (15 in each). Group A was a control group in which the rabbits underwent laparotomy alone. In groups B and C, hepatic blood was blocked for 30 min. Simultaneously, rabbits in group C underwent left lateral lobe resection. After 30 min of ischemia, CEUS was conducted after 0 h, 1 h, 6 h and 24 h of reperfusion in the 3 groups. Time-intensity curves (TICs) for CEUS were constructed and quantitative parameters (maximum intensity [IMAX], rise time [RT], time to peak [TTP] and mean transit time [mTT]) were obtained. In addition, serum aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) levels were computed to estimate liver function before the operation and at 0 h, 1 h, 6 h and 24 h after reperfusion, respectively. Pathologic changes in the liver after reperfusion were also observed. Simultaneously, the correlations between serum transaminase and a variety of quantitative analysis parameters were analyzed. In groups B and C, the IMAX value decreased; whereas RT, TTP, mTT and serum ALT and AST levels increased significantly in comparison with those in group A after 0 h and 1 h of reperfusion. The pathology revealed that erythrocytes were destroyed and microcirculation was disturbed. Then, at 6 h of reperfusion, the IMAX continued to decrease. Additionally, the levels of RT, TTP, mTT and serum ALT and AST increased in comparison with those at 1 h of reperfusion. The pathologic analysis revealed inflammatory cell aggregation and leukocyte infiltration. After 24 h of reperfusion, the IMAX was reduced in comparison with that of the 6-h group. The levels of RT, TTP, mTT and serum ALT and serum AST were increased in comparison with that of the 6-h group. These findings were in accordance with the pathologic analysis. In addition, serum transaminase had a negative correlation with IMAX (p
Contrast-enhanced ultrasound; Ischemia-reperfusion injury; Microcirculation dysfunction; Perfusion quantification.
