28749166
2017 Oct
Objective:To evaluate the value of fusion imaging with post-treatment contrast-enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) and pre-treatment contrast-enhanced CT/MRI (CECT/CEMRI) in evaluating ablative safety margin after percutaneous ultrasound (US)-guided radiofrequency ablation (RFA) for liver cancers.Methods:34 consecutive patients with 47 liver lesions who had undergone RFA were included. Fusion imaging with post-treatment CEUS and pre-treatment CECT/CEMRI was carried out to evaluate local treatment response and ablative safety margin within 1-3 days after RFA. The minimal ablative safety margins of the ablation zones were recorded. The complete response (CR) rate was calculated with reference to CECT/CEMRI results 1 month after RFA. The local tumour progression (LTP) was also recorded.Results:Of the 47 ablation zones, 47 (100%) were clearly depicted with CEUS-CECT/CEMRI fusion imaging, 36 (76.6%) with US-CECT/CEMRI fusion imaging and 21 (44.7%) with conventional US (both p < 0.001). The minimal ablative safety margins were great than or equal to 5 mm in 28 ablation zones, between 0 and 5 mm in 15, and less than 0 mm in 4. For the four lesions without enough ablative safety margin, three were referred to follow-up because CEUS showed larger ablation zones than pre-treatment lesions and the remaining lesion was subject to additional RFA 5 days after the first RFA. The CR rate was 95.7% (45/47) with reference to CECT/CEMRI results 1 month after RFA. During 2 to 34 months follow-up, LTP was found in two (4.4%) of 45 lesions with CR. Insufficient ablative safety margin was more commonly found in those lesions with LTP than those without LTP (1/4 vs 1/43, p < 0.001).Conclusion:Fusion imaging with post-treatment CEUS and pre-treatment CECT/CEMRI can depict the ablative safety margin accurately after RFA. Inadequate ablative safety margin is associated with LTP. Depiction of ablative safety margin by fusion imaging after ablation might be considered as a routine procedure to assess the treatment response of RFA. Advances in knowledge: Fusion imaging with post-treatment CEUS and pre-treatment CECT/CEMRI is an effective method to evaluate the ablative safety margin early after RFA. Therefore, it should be recommended to be used as a routine procedure after RFA for liver cancers.

