28794043
2017 Oct 13
There is an urgent need for therapeutic development to combat infections caused by Rift Valley fever virus (RVFV), which causes devastating disease in both humans and animals. In an effort to repurpose drugs for RVFV treatment, our previous studies screened a library of FDA-approved drugs. The most promising candidate identified was the hepatocellular and renal cell carcinoma drug sorafenib. Mechanism-of-action studies indicated that sorafenib targeted a late stage in virus infection and caused a buildup of virions within cells. In addition, small interfering RNA (siRNA) knockdown studies suggested that nonclassical targets of sorafenib are important for the propagation of RVFV. Here we extend our previous findings to identify the mechanism by which sorafenib inhibits the release of RVFV virions from the cell. Confocal microscopy imaging revealed that glycoprotein Gn colocalizes and accumulates within the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and the transport of Gn from the Golgi complex to the host cell membrane is reduced. Transmission electron microscopy demonstrated that sorafenib caused virions to be present inside large vacuoles inside the cells. p97/valosin-containing protein (VCP), which is involved in membrane remodeling in the secretory pathway and a known target of sorafenib, was found to be important for RVFV egress. Knockdown of VCP resulted in decreased RVFV replication, reduced Gn Golgi complex localization, and increased Gn ER accumulation. The intracellular accumulation of RVFV virions was also observed in cells transfected with siRNA targeting VCP. Collectively, these data indicate that sorafenib causes a disruption in viral egress by targeting VCP and the secretory pathway, resulting in a buildup of virions within dilated ER vesicles.IMPORTANCE In humans, symptoms of RVFV infection mainly include a self-limiting febrile illness. However, in some cases, infected individuals can also experience hemorrhagic fever, neurological disorders, liver failure, and blindness, which could collectively be lethal. The ability of RVFV to expand geographically outside sub-Saharan Africa is of concern, particularly to the Americas, where native mosquito species are capable of virus transmission. Currently, there are no FDA-approved therapeutics to treat RVFV infection, and thus, there is an urgent need to understand the mechanisms by which the virus hijacks the host cell machinery to replicate. The significance of our research is in identifying the cellular target of sorafenib that inhibits RVFV propagation, so that this information can be used as a tool for the further development of therapeutics used to treat RVFV infection.
Rift Valley fever virus; VCP; egress; sorafenib.
