28821164
2017 Oct
Background:Cape gooseberry (Physalis peruviana) fruit is highly nutritious with high content of health-promoting compounds including minerals, phenolic compounds, as well as vitamins A and C. Physalis peruviana fruits were used as mutagenic, antispasmodic, anticoagulant, and antileucemis agents.Objective:The objective of the present work was to study the role of cape gooseberry juice (CG) as a natural modulator agent for adverse aspects associated with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).Results:The results recorded that HCC rats had a significant disturbance in blood indices. An elevation in serum level of the inflammatory (TNF-ά, CRP, and Argenase), hepatic apoptotic markers (P53, Bax, and Caspase 3) and a reduction of Blc2% were recorded in HCC rats. The results exhibited the significant disturbance and arrest in hepatic cell cycle (% of M1: SubG1 phase, M2: G0/1 phase of diploid cycle, M3: S phase, and M4: G2/M phase) as well as liver cell viability status in HCC rats. Numerous histopathological alterations were detected in hepatic tissues of HCC rats such as inflammation, damage of hepatocytes, dilated congested central vein with degenerated endothelial cells and congested blood sinusoids in addition to collagen fibers in hepatocytes and central vein indicating hepatic fibrosis. The tested parameters were little improved upon treatment of HCC rats with Adriamycin (ADR, Doxorubicin is a generic name of a drug). HCC rats received CG showed an improvement in all tested parameters. The effects of CG were through down regulation of p53 expression and up-regulation of Bcl2 domain protected hepatic structure from extensive damage.Conclusion:CG plus ADR exhibited an enhanced antitumor impact in HCC and this combination might have an important value in the treatment of HCC. CG was more effective than ADR, and it has a remarkable role in the management of hepatic disorders besides its success as a chemo-sensitizer for ADR treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma.
Apoptotic markers; Blood indices; Goldenberry; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Malignant hepatoma; Tumor markers.
