28982915
2017 Oct
Aim:Overexpression of stathmin (STMN1) has been reported for several tumor entities. STMN1 expression correlated with the detection of mutant p53, also suggesting loss-of-function-dependent mechanisms for its accumulation in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cells. On the other hand, miR-223 has been identified as one of the most down-regulated miRNAs in HCC, and its expression was shown to be negatively correlated with STMN1 expression. The aim of this study was to investigate the clinical significance of STMN1 and miRNA-223 expression.Patients and methods:Fifty-six consecutive patients with HCC who underwent curative hepatectomy as initial treatment were enrolled. They were divided into two groups based on the STMN1 expression level: high (n=36) and low (n=20) gene-expression groups. We compared the clinicopathological factors between the groups with high and low expression in non-tumor tissues. Thirty out of 56 patients were also divided into groups with high (n=15) and low (n=15) miR-223 expression and compared the clinicopathological factors between the two groups.Results:There were no significant differences in patient background between high and low STMN1 expression groups. The incidence of multicentric (MC) recurrence in the high-expression group was significantly higher than in the low-expression group and high STMN1 expression was shown to be an independent risk factor for MC recurrence. There were also no significant differences in patient background between high and low miR-223 expression groups; however, the disease-free survival rate in the group with low expression was significantly worse. Furthermore, MC-related miRNAs identified by miRNA microarray clearly clustered patients into MC recurrence and non-recurrence groups.Conclusion:Both gene and miRNA expression profiles in non-tumor liver tissues could predict the risk for MC recurrence. Such molecular information may be useful in enabling better decision making for patients with HCC.
Carcinogenesis; gene expression; multicentric recurrence; prognosis.
