28224023
2016 Dec
Aim:In the current study, we analysised only the articles that investigate serum proteome profile of cirrhosis patients or HCC patients versus healthy controls.Background:Increased understanding of cancer biology has enabled identification of molecular events that lead to the discovery of numerous potential biomarkers in diseases. Protein-protein interaction networks is one of aspect that could elevate the understanding level of molecular events and protein connections that lead to the identification of genes and proteins associated with diseases.Methods:Gene expression data, including 63 gene or protein names for hepatocellular carcinoma and 29 gene or protein names for cirrhosis, were extracted from a number of previous investigations. The networks of related differentially expressed genes were explored using Cytoscape and the PPI analysis methods such as MCODE and ClueGO. Centrality and cluster screening identified hub genes, including APOE, TTR, CLU, and APOA1 in cirrhosis.Results:CLU and APOE belong to the regulation of positive regulation of neurofibrillary tangle assembly. HP and APOE involved in cellular oxidant detoxification. C4B and C4BP belong to the complement activation, classical pathway and acute inflammation response pathway. Also, it was reported TTR, TFRC, VWF, CLU, A2M, APOA1, CKAP5, ZNF648, CASP8, and HSP27 as hubs in HCC. In HCC, these include A2M that are corresponding to platelet degranulation, humoral immune response, and negative regulation of immune effector process. CLU belong to the reverse cholesterol transport, platelet degranulation and human immune response. APOA1 corresponds to the reverse cholesterol transport, platelet degranulation and humoral immune response, as well as negative regulation of immune effector process pathway.Conclusion:In conclusion, this study suggests that there is a common molecular relationship between cirrhosis and hepatocellular cancer that may help with identification of target molecules for early treatment that is essential in cancer therapy.
Cirrhosis; Gene ontology; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Protein-Protein Interaction Network.
