31120785
2019 Sep
OBJECTIVE. Local ablation of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) before liver transplant has important advantages, such as preventing disease progression, tumor downstaging, and offering a test of time. However, it might render liver transplant more technically demanding. Thus far, its potential effect on liver transplant outcomes is still unknown, and, therefore, the current study was performed. MATERIALS AND METHODS. Patients who underwent liver transplant for HCC at a single tertiary referral center between 2008 and 2016 were included and retrospectively analyzed. Patients who underwent liver resection and local ablation before liver transplant were excluded. Patients treated with local ablation before liver transplant were compared with those not treated with local ablation, both before and after propensity score matching. In addition, the local ablation group was compared with patients who underwent primary resection before liver transplant. Posttreatment mortality and morbidity were determined, and overall and disease-free survival rates were calculated. RESULTS. In total, 182 patients were included. Twenty-six patients underwent resection but not local ablation before liver transplant. Of the remaining 156 patients, 66 (42%) underwent local ablation before liver transplant and 90 (58%) did not. Perioperative mortality and morbidity were similar in both groups before and after propensity score matching (8% and 74% in the local ablation group vs 10% and 83% in the non-local ablation group, p = 0.60 and 0.17, respectively). In addition, no significant differences in long-term outcomes were observed between the groups before and after propensity score matching. Also, no differences were observed in outcomes in the local ablation group versus the liver resection group. CONCLUSION. Local ablation before liver transplant does not have a negative effect on outcomes after liver transplant for HCC.
hepatocellular carcinoma; liver transplant; local ablation; perioperative outcomes.
