31270214
2019 Sep
Adenosine deaminases acting on RNA (ADARs) enzymes-catalyzing adenosine-to-inosine RNA editing possibly modulates gene expression and function. In this study, we investigated whether ADARs regulate the expression of human constitutive androstane receptor (CAR), which controls the expression of various drug-metabolizing enzymes. CAR mRNA and protein levels in human hepatocellular carcinoma-derived HepG2 cells were increased by knockdown of ADAR1 and slightly increased by ADAR2, indicating that ADARs negatively regulate CAR expression. Increased luciferase activity of a reporter plasmid containing the CYP3A4 promoter region by phenobarbital was augmented by transfection of siRNA for ADAR1 (siADAR1) but not by siADAR2. In addition, the knockdown of ADAR1 resulted in the enhanced induction of CYP2B6 and CYP3A4 mRNA by 6-(4-chlorophenyl)imidazo[2,1-b][1,3]thiazole-5-carbaldehyde O-(3,4-dichlorobenzyl)oxime and phenobarbital, respectively. These results suggest that ADAR1-mediated downregulation of CAR affects its downstream cytochrome P450 expression. When the transcription was inhibited by α-amanitin, the degradation of CAR mRNA was attenuated by knockdown of ADAR1, suggesting that the increase in CAR mRNA level by ADAR1 knockdown is a post-transcriptional event. Finally, we found that ADAR1 knockdown promotes the splicing of CAR as a mechanism of the increased expression of CAR by ADAR1 knockdown. In conclusion, this study revealed that ADAR1 plays a role in modulating xenobiotic metabolism potency via regulation of CAR. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: This study revealed that adenosine deaminase acting on RNA 1 (ADAR1) and ADAR2, which catalyze adenosine-to-inosine RNA editing, downregulate the expression of constitutive androstane receptor (CAR) in human liver-derived cells by attenuating splicing. The downregulation of CAR by ADARs affected its downstream cytochrome P450 expression. ADARs would play a role in modulating xenobiotic metabolism potency via regulation of CAR.

