31299613
2019 Sep
Inflammation is typically associated with the development of fibrosis, cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. The key role of protein tyrosine phosphatase 1B (PTP1B) in inflammatory responses has focused this study in understanding its implication in liver fibrosis. Here we show that hepatic PTP1B mRNA expression increased after bile duct ligation (BDL), while BDL-induced liver fibrosis was markedly reduced in mice lacking Ptpn1 (PTP1B-/-) as assessed by decreased collagen deposition and α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA) expression. PTP1B-/- mice also showed a significant increase in mRNA levels of key markers of monocytes recruitment (Cd68, Adgre1 and Ccl2) compared to their wild-type (PTP1B+/+) littermates at early stages of injury after BDL. Interestingly, the lack of PTP1B strongly increased the NADPH oxidase (NOX) subunits Nox1/Nox4 ratio and downregulated Cybb expression after BDL, revealing a pro-survival pattern of NADPH oxidase induction in response to liver injury. Chimeric mice generated by transplantation of PTP1B-/- bone marrow (BM) into irradiated PTP1B+/+ mice revealed similar hepatic expression profile of NOX subunits than PTP1B-/- mice while these animals did not show differences in infiltration of myeloid cells at 7 days post-BDL, suggesting that PTP1B deletion in other liver cells is necessary for boosting the early inflammatory response to the BDL. PTP1B-/- BM transplantation into PTP1B+/+ mice also led to a blockade of TGF-β and α-SMA induction after BDL. In vitro experiments demonstrated that deficiency of PTP1B in hepatocytes protects against bile acid-induced apoptosis and abrogates hepatic stellate cells (HSC) activation, an effect ameliorated by NOX1 inhibition. In conclusion, our results have revealed that the lack of PTP1B switches NOX expression pattern in response to liver injury after BDL and reduces HSC activation and liver fibrosis.
Bile duct ligation; Bone marrow transplantation; Inflammation; Liver fibrosis; NADPH oxidases; Protein tyrosine phosphatase 1B.
