31401087
2019 Sep 25
Naturally occurring oleanolic acid (OA) possesses a hepatoprotective activity and ability to inhibit proliferation of human hepatocellular carcinoma cells. Both properties might be related to its anti-inflammatory activity. Its low bioavailability justifies the search for more hydrophilic OA derivatives. The aim of this study was the design and synthesis of four novel OA oxime derivatives conjugated with succinic acid at the C-3 position of oleanane skeleton structure and evaluation of their effect on NF-κB and STATs expression and activation in HepG2 cells. The expression of NF-κB and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), STAT5A/B and STAT3 with its target genes: BAX, BCL-XL and MYC was evaluated after 24 h treatment with tested compounds. The comparison of the levels of cytosolic and nuclear NF-κB subunits p50, p65 and STATs proteins was used as the measure of their activation. The results pointed out the 3-succinyloxyiminoolean-12-en-28-oic acid morpholide (SMAM) as the most potent modulator of NF-κB and STAT3. SMAM significantly reduced the expression and activation of NF-κB as well as its nuclear protein level of p65 subunit. This compound also reduced the expression and activation of STAT3 and STAT5A/B. Combined effect of SMAM on these transcription factors resulted in reduced expression of COX-2, MYC and anti-apoptotic BCL-XL genes. Simultaneously, the increased expression of pro-apoptotic BAX gene was observed. In the cells treated with 3-succinyloxyiminoolean-12-en-28-oic acid (SMAA) the increased expression of BAX was also found. The effects of 3-succinyloxyiminoolean-12-en-28-oic acid benzyl ester (SMAEB) and 3-succinyloxyiminoolean-12-en-28-oic acid methyl ester (SMAEM) were moderate and ambiguous in relation to the tested factors. Moreover, the coordinated action of SMAM on NF-κB and STAT3 confirms their close association in HepG2 cells. We conclude that SMAM efficiently downregulates the key elements of signaling pathways involved in inflammatory driven HCC. Thus, may be considered as a potential chemopreventive or therapeutic agent in this type of cancer.
Bcl-xL; COX-2; HepG2 cells; NF-κB; Oleanolic acid derivatives; STATs.
