31436836
2019 Sep 3
Residual energy intake (REI) on two successive diets (hay and maize based) and slaughter traits, including visceral organs, were phenotyped in 584 adult purebred Charolais cows. To investigate the relationships between these traits and their genetic determinism, we first estimated the genetic parameters, including correlations, using REML modeling under WOMBAT software. The animals were then genotyped on the BovineSNP50 SNPchip before being imputed to the 600K density and genome wide association study was performed with GCTA software. We found low heritability for REI (h2 = 0.12 in each of the diet phases). Although the phenotypic correlation between the two diet phases was moderate (0.36), the genetic correlation was high (0.83), indicating a common genetic determinism for feed efficiency regardless of the diet. Correlations between REI and slaughter traits were negative regarding muscle-related traits and positive for fat-related traits, indicating that efficient animals generally had a more muscular carcass. It was also seen that feed efficiency was genetically and phenotypically correlated with smaller organs when expressed as a proportion of their empty body weight. From the GWAS analysis, seven QTLs were found to be associated with a trait at the genome-wide level of significance and 18 others at the chromosome-wide level. One important QTL was detected in BTA 2, reflecting the essential effect of the myostatin gene on both carcass composition and relative organ weight. Three QTLs were detected for REI during the maize diet phase on BTA 13, 19, and 28, the latter being significant at the genome-wide level. The QTLs on BTA 19 mapped into the TANC2 gene and the QTLs on BTA 28 into the KIF1BP gene, which are both known to interact with the same protein (KIF1A). However, no obvious functional link between these genes and feed efficiency could be made. Among the other QTLs detected, one association on BTA 4 with liver proportion mapped to the candidate gene WASL, which has previously been shown to be differentially expressed in liver cells and linked to feed restriction or cancer development. No QTLs were found to be common between feed efficiency and any slaughter traits.
GWAS; beef cattle; feed efficiency; genetic correlations; slaughter traits.
