31513595
2019 Sep 12
Background:Although gross vascular invasion (VI) has prognostic significance in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) who have undergone hepatic resection, few studies have investigated the relationship between gross VI and aberrant expression of microribonucleic acids (miRNAs and miRs). Thus, the objective of this study was to identify miRNAs selectively expressed in HCC with gross VI and investigate their prognostic significance.Materials and methods:Eligible two datasets (accession number: GSE20594 and GSE67140) were collected from the National Center for Biotechnology Information's (NCBI) Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database to compare miRNAs expression between HCC with and without gross VI. Differentially expressed miRNAs were externally validated using expression data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database. Prognostic significance and predicted functions of selected miRNAs for HCC were also investigated.Results:Thirty-five miRNAs were differentially expressed between HCC with and without gross VI in both datasets. Among them, three miRNAs were validated using TCGA database. miR-99a, miR-100, and miR-148a were downregulated to a greater extent in patients with HCC and gross VI than in those with HCC but no gross VI. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis showed discriminatory power of these miRNAs in predicting gross VI. Multivariate survival analysis revealed that types of surgery, advanced tumor node metastasis (TNM) stage, and low expression of miR-100-5p were independently associated with tumor recurrence. It also revealed that types of surgery, advanced TNM stage, low expression of miR-100-5p and miR-148a-3p were independent risk factors for overall survival (OS) after hepatic resection for HCC. A text mining analysis revealed that these miRNAs were linked to multifaceted hallmarks of cancer, including "invasion and metastasis."Conclusions:Low expressions of miR-100-5p and miR-148a-3p were associated with gross VI and poor survival of patients after hepatic resection for HCC.

