23824990
2013 Dec
Purpose:To assess the effects of acquisition duration on computed tomographic (CT) perfusion parameter values in neuroendocrine liver metastases and normal liver tissue.Materials and methods:This retrospective study was institutional review board approved, with waiver of informed consent. CT perfusion studies in 16 patients (median age, 57.5 years; range, 42.0-69.7 years), including six men (median, 54.1 years; range, 42.0-69.7), and 10 women (median, 59.3 years; range 43.6-66.3), with neuroendocrine liver metastases were analyzed by means of distributed parametric modeling to determine tissue blood flow, blood volume, mean transit time, permeability, and hepatic arterial fraction for tumors and normal liver tissue. Analyses were undertaken with acquisition time of 12-590 seconds. Nonparameteric regression analyses were used to evaluate the functional relationships between CT perfusion parameters and acquisition duration. Evidence for time invariance was evaluated for each parameter at multiple time points by inferring the fitted derivative to assess its proximity to zero as a function of acquisition time by using equivalence tests with three levels of confidence (20%, 70%, and 90%).Results:CT perfusion parameter values varied, approaching stable values with increasing acquisition duration. Acquisition duration greater than 160 seconds was required to obtain at least low confidence stability in any of the CT perfusion parameters. At 160 seconds of acquisition, all five CT perfusion parameters stabilized with low confidence in tumor and normal tissues, with the exception of hepatic arterial fraction in tumors. After 220 seconds of acquisition, there was stabilization with moderate confidence for blood flow, blood volume, and hepatic arterial fraction in tumors and normal tissue, and for mean transit time in tumors; however, permeability values did not satisfy the moderate stabilization criteria in both tumors and normal tissue until 360 seconds of acquisition. Blood flow, mean transit time, permeability, and hepatic arterial fraction were significantly different between tumor and normal tissue at 360 seconds (P < .001).Conclusion:CT perfusion parameter values are affected by acquisition duration and approach progressively stable values with increasing acquisition times. Online supplemental material is available for this article.

