24304459
2013 Dec
Clinical observations suggest that chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infections in the Canadian Inuit are less often associated with serious adverse outcomes than has been described in other HBV-infected patient populations. The aim of this study was to document the clinical and biochemical features, liver-related morbidity and all-cause mortality in Canadian Inuit with chronic HBV infections. Administrative databases were reviewed for individuals identified as hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) positive during a 1983-85 seroepidemiological survey of viral hepatitis in Baffin Island, Canada. An equal number of age- and gender-matched HBsAg-negative individuals from the same communities served as controls. Baseline HBV viral loads, genotypes and specific mutations were compared in HBsAg-positive survivors and nonsurvivors. A subset of surviving HBsAg-positive carriers were reassessed 25-30 years following their initial diagnosis for evidence of advanced liver disease and changes to their serological/virological findings. One hundred and forty four HBsAg-positive individuals were identified. All were Canadian Inuit. The mean age at diagnosis was 38 ± 17 years and 69 (61%) were male. Median follow-up was 23 years (range: 2-28 years). Viral quantitation from stored sera could be performed in 70 infected individuals. The median viral load was 4.3 log 10 IU/ml (range: 2.3-8.8 log 10 IU/ml), and all were genotype B, subgenotype B6. Liver biochemistry, morbidity and all-cause mortality rates were similar in HBsAg-positive carriers and controls. Following multivariate analyses, only age at diagnosis predicted mortality in HBsAg carriers. In a subset of 30 HBsAg-positive survivors who underwent follow-up assessments, clinical, biochemical and radiological examinations of the liver were essentially normal. 23/30 (77%) remained HBsAg positive and 17/19 (90%) HBV-DNA positive. The genotype and prevalence of genomic mutations in this cohort remained largely unchanged, but quantifiable viral loads were significantly lower (P
Inuit; chronic hepatitis B; cirrhosis; hepatitis; hepatocellular carcinoma; liver disease; natural history; subgenotype B6.
