24386416
2013 Dec 26
Background:A number of case-control patient studies have been conducted to investigate the association between diabetes mellitus (DM) and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Despite some controversial reports, it has been suggested that DM is associated with HCC. The previous studies on this subject vary in the selection of populations, sample sizes, methodology, and analysis results. Therefore, it is necessary to further delineate the involvement of DM, together with other related risk factors, in HCC with large sample size and strict analysis methodology.Methods:We conducted a hospital-based retrospective case-control study at Perking Union Medical College Hospital, China. A total of 1,568 patients with liver diseases were enrolled in the statistical study to evaluate the association of DM and other risk factors with HCC. Among these patients, 716 of them were diagnosed with benign liver diseases, and 852 patients were diagnosed as HCC. We utilized binary logistic regression and stepwise logistic regression to investigate the associations among DM, hypertension, fatty liver, cirrhosis, gallstone, HBV infection, HCV infection, and HCC.Results:Statistical analysis through the stepwise regression model indicated that the prevalence of DM, male gender, cirrhosis, HCV infection, or HBV infection is higher in the HCC patient group compared to the control group. However, the prevalence of gallstone is negatively associated with HCC cases. DM co-exists with HBV infection, male gender, and age in the HCC cases. Binary logistic regression analysis suggested that DM may synergize with HBV infection in HCC development.Conclusion:DM is strongly associated with the increased risk of HCC regardless of the prevalence of HBV infection, HCV infection, cirrhosis, male gender, and age. However, the synergistic interaction between DM and HBV in HCC occurrence is significant. Therefore, DM patients with HBV infection represent a very high HCC risk population and should be considered for HCC close surveillance program.

