29986632
2018 Jan 1
Electroporation is a well-known phenomenon that occurs at the cell membrane when cells are exposed to high-intensity electric pulses. Depending on electric pulse amplitude and number of pulses, applied electroporation can be reversible with membrane permeability recovery or irreversible. Reversible electroporation is used to introduce drugs or genetic material into the cell without affecting cell viability. Electrochemotherapy refers to a combined treatment: electroporation and drug injection to enhance its cytotoxic effect up to 1000-fold for bleomycin. Since several years, electrochemotherapy is gaining popularity as minimally invasive oncologic treatment. The adoption of electrochemotherapy procedure in interventional oncology poses several unsolved questions, since suitable tumor histology and size as well as therapeutic efficacy still needs to be deepen. Electrochemotherapy is usually applied in palliative settings for the treatment of patients with unresectable tumors to relieve pain and ameliorate quality of life. In most cases, it is used in the treatment of advanced stages of neoplasia when radical surgical treatment is not possible (eg, due to lesion location, size, and/or number). Further, electrochemotherapy allows treating tumor nodules in the proximity of important structures like vessels and nerves as the treatment does not involve tissue heating. Overall, the safety profile of electrochemotherapy is favorable. Most of the observed adverse events are local and transient, moderate local pain, erythema, edema, and muscle contractions during electroporation. The aim of this article is to review the recent published clinical experiences of electrochemotherapy use in deep-seated tumors with particular focus on liver cases. The principle of electrochemotherapy as well as the application to cutaneous metastases is briefly described. A short insight in the treatment of bone metastases, unresectable pancreas cancer, and soft tissue sarcoma will be given. Preclinical and clinical studies on treatment efficacy with electrochemotherapy of hepatic lesions and safety of the procedure adopted are discussed.
ECT; bleomycin; electrochemotherapy; hepatic; hepatocellular carcinoma; interventional oncology; liver; metastases; percutaneous; reversible electroporation.
