30551496
2019 Jan
Background:The anti-tumor properties of Alpinia oxyphylla Miquel (A. oxyphylla) extracts and their petroleum ether (PE) fractions have long attracted scientific attention. These extracts' anti-tumor activity and mechanisms in vivo are still unclear. This study was designed to investigate the anti-tumor activity and the underlying mechanism of PE's effect on hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in vitro and in vivo.Materials and method:The anti-tumor activity of PE was evaluated by MTT assay and xenograft study. Mechanistic studies of PE were analyzed by Hoechst 33342 staining, Annexin V-FITC/PI double-staining assay, immunohistochemical staining and western blot assay. The toxicity of the PE treatment was verified by the levels of liver and kidney function in nude mice and the H&E staining of their liver and kidney tissues.Result:PE significantly inhibited the growth of HepG2, BEL-7402, SMMC-7721 and Hep3B cells in a concentration- and time-dependent manner. Specifically, PE inhibited the growth of Hep3B cells by inducing apoptosis. PE treatment at the doses of 0.25, 0.5 and 1 g/kg for 21 days caused a respective 35.7 percent, 49.3 percent and 58.8 percent inhibition of the tumor volume, and a 14.8 percent, 40.2 percent and 55.6 percent decrease in the tumor weight, respectively, as compared with the vehicle group in tumor-loaded mice in vivo. PE promoted the release of cytochrome c from mitochondria to cytosol in a concentration-dependent manner. The expression levels of BAX (p Conclusion:These findings suggested that PE exhibited anti-cancer efficacy on Hep3B cell in vitro and in vivo. The induction of apoptosis might be one mechanism that underlies PE's ability to combat cancer by inhibiting the PI3K/Akt pathway. PE has no obvious toxicity in vivo when it exerts anti-tumor effects and has the potential to develop into an alternative anti-cancer drug for HCC treatment.
Alpinia oxyplylla; Apoptosis; Hepatocellular carcinoma; PI3K/Akt pathway; Petroleum ether fraction.
