25535724
Mar-Apr 2015
Introduction:The measurement of intracellular Ca(2+), cytosolic or stored in organelles, i.e., mitochondria, gave valuable data for numerous areas of research. In case of tumor cells, mitochondrial Ca(2+) levels play essential roles in apoptosis along with endoplasmic reticulum (ER) Ca(2+). In this study, we describe a Ca(2+) monitoring system that allows studying both adherent cells and tissues and discuss data obtained from hepatocellular carcinoma cells and rat thoracic aorta by using this system.Methods:For this purpose, two apparatus, one for adherent cells and the other for intact rat aorta, were designed and produced. With this system, changes in cytosolic Ca(2+) levels following store-operated calcium (SOC) entry induced by sarco/endoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+) ATPase (SERCA) blockers were recorded in different hepatocellular carcinoma cells. Furthermore, cytosolic and mitochondrial Ca(2+) levels were simultaneously measured in TRPC1-silenced Huh7 hepatocellular carcinoma cells. In addition, the effects of trifluoromethylphenylimidazole (TRIM) on cyclopiazonic acid (CPA)-, serotonin (5-HT)-, and phenylephrine (PE)-induced changes in isometric force and cytosolic Ca(2+) levels were determined simultaneously in rat thoracic aorta. The effects of aging on PE-induced responses were also investigated.Results:After SOC entry activation, cytosolic Ca(2+) levels were increased, as expected in all hepatocellular carcinoma cells. Mitochondrial Ca(2+) levels following CPA-induced ER depletion were significantly (pDiscussion:We confirmed that the system provides valuable data about intracellular Ca(2+) dynamics by allowing simultaneous measurements and sequential addition of compounds in adherent cells. The decrease in mitochondrial Ca(2+) loading following CPA-induced ER depletion in TRPC1-silenced Huh7 cells suggests a possible role of TRPC1 in hepatocellular carcinoma cell apoptosis. The system also enables the simultaneous measurement of isometric force and cytosolic Ca(2+) levels and promotes understanding vascular physiology and disease.
Apoptosis; Fura-2; Rat aorta; Rhod-2.
