26242159
2015
The current study aimed at improvement of treatment effects for patients with resectable metastases of colorectal cancer in the liver with a poor prognosis. Overall 437 patients were enrolled with metastatic colorectal cancer in the liver exhibiting at least one adverse factor of long-term prognosis: multiple metastases, bilobar liver metastases, large metastases, the presence of extrahepatic metastases, etc. Combined treatment was performed for 339 (78%) patients: combined treatment with adjuvant systemic chemotherapy (163 patients), combined treatment with perioperative systemic chemotherapy (54 patients), or combined treatment of perioperative regional chemotherapy (122 patients). Surgical treatment was performed in 66 (15%) patients. The remaining group of 32 (7%) patients with resectable metastases who received only systemic chemotherapy was considered separately. All liver resections were extensive due to the widespread metastases. The complication rate stood at 56%. Mortality among operated patients was 4%. Postoperative mortality and complications as well as the intraoperative blood loss were not statistically different in two groups. Adding bevacizumab to preoperative chemotherapy did not increase blood loss. After combined treatment with adjuvant chemotherapy a 5-year survival was 26 ± 4% that significantly outperforming a 5-year survival rate after surgery (17 ± 5%), after just drug treatment a 5-year survival has not been reached, and also after combined treatment with perioperative systemic chemotherapy (13 ± 5%) and not statistically significant exceeded a 5-year survival after combined treatment with perioperative regional chemotherapy (20 ±5%). Thus our study demonstrates the benefits of combined treatment with adjuvant systemic chemotherapy for resectable metastases of colorectal cancer in the liver with a poor prognosis. For initially unresectable metastases with extrahepatic manifestations of the disease treatment should be begun with systemic chemotherapy. To liver resection in the latter cases there are resorted only after the transfer of patients in operable condition.

