26664475
Oct-Dec 2015
Hypothesis:Chronic viral liver disease is often associated with other conditions. Diabetes mellitus (DM) is frequently reported in this context and may play a role in the progression of the liver disease to hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Renal disease is also an important extrahepatic manifestation of hepatitis viral infection and its presence is associated with poor prognosis and management issues.Objectives:Our study had multiple purposes: to determine the frequency of the association between chronic viral liver disease and diabetes mellitus, evaluate the potential of diabetes mellitus as a risk factor for HCC and assess an eventual renal involvement.Methods and results:We included in our study a number of 246 patients with chronic liver disease, from whom 136 were diagnosed with chronic viral hepatitis and 110 with viral liver cirrhosis. These patients were assessed by using a clinical examination and a series of tests, including serum transaminase levels, serum bilirubin, serum albumin, markers of cholestasis, fasting plasma glucose levels, serum creatinine, urea, albuminuria, Addis-Hamburger test, electrophoresis of urinary proteins, abdominal ultrasound and, in some cases, CT examination. We obtained the following results: diabetes mellitus is often associated with chronic liver disease of viral etiology, having been identified in 18.29% of the patients in our study. Age above 60 in patients with chronic hepatitis (p=0.013Discussion:Our study revealed that there is a significant association between diabetes mellitus and chronic viral liver disease induced by hepatitis C virus. Glomerulonephritis was the most common type of renal disease in both hepatitis patients and in those with cirrhosis. Glomerular injury was strongly correlated with the presence of hepatitis C virus than with hepatitis B virus. A connection between diabetes mellitus and hepatocellular carcinoma could not be established.
chronic viral hepatitis; diabetes mellitus; hepatocellular carcinoma; kidney disease; viral liver cirrhosis.
