31236701
2019 Dec
Objectives:To evaluate the diagnostic value of Lipiodol distribution in angiography and CT to differentiate between hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and benign nodules of LI-RADS 3 and 4 lesions observed in MRI of liver cirrhosis.Methods:This retrospective study included all patients with liver cirrhosis who had diagnosis of LI-RADS 3 or 4 lesions by MRI who underwent a Lipiodol-based angiography and post-interventional unenhanced CT- and liver biopsy. Two independent radiologists evaluated appearance, contrast enhancement, Lipiodol uptake in angiography, and morphological parameters (size, form, and density) of the lesions in unenhanced post-angiography CT. α-Fetoprotein (AFP) levels and pre-existing liver conditions were additionally taken into consideration. Differences between HCC lesions and benign nodules were analyzed. Sensitivity and specificity were calculated. P Results:Of 60 patients (men, n = 42 [70.0%]; women, 18 [30.0%]; mean age, 61 ± 9.1 years) 36 (60.0%) had HCC and 24 (40.0%) benign nodules. Clear visibility in angiography (sensitivity [se], 100%; specificity [sp], 87.5%) with homogeneous or lacunar Lipiodol enhancement (se, 86.1%; sp, 100%) in consecutive CT can be diagnosed as HCC lesions in cirrhotic liver. Lesion form (p Conclusion:Clearly detectable lesions in Lipiodol-based angiography and a homogeneous or lacunar enhancement in post-angiographic non-contrast CT allow for differentiation of intrahepatic lesions classified as LI-RADS 3 or 4 into benign vs. malign liver lesions with high sensitivity and specificity in patients with liver cirrhosis. Definite diagnosis may not require an additional biopsy.Key points:• Combination of clear visibility in Lipiodol-based angiography and homogeneous or lacunar enhancement in following native CT scan is HCC-defining. • In lesions classified with MRI as LI-RADS 3 or 4, evaluation based on Lipiodol angiography and following plain CT performed is highly sensitive and specific for the differentiation between HCC and benign nodules in a cirrhotic liver. • The results lead to an alternative pathway in the diagnosis of HCC in cirrhotic liver without the need of an additional liver biopsy.
Angiography; Carcinoma, hepatocellular; Ethiodized oil; Liver cirrhosis; Tomography, X-ray computed.
