31449860
2019 Dec
Background & aims:Sorafenib is associated with multiple adverse events (AEs), potentially causing its permanent interruption. It is unknown how physicians' experience has impacted on the management of these AEs and consequently on clinical outcomes. We aimed to assess whether AE management changed over time and if these modifications impacted on treatment duration and overall survival (OS).Methods:We analysed the prospectively collected data of 338 consecutive patients who started sorafenib between January 2008 and December 2017 in 3 tertiary care centres in Italy. Patients were divided according to the starting date: Group A (2008-2012; n = 154), and Group B (2013-2017, n = 184). Baseline and follow-up data were compared. In the OS analysis, patients who received second-line treatments were censored when starting the new therapy.Results:Baseline characteristics, AEs, and radiological response were consistent across groups. Patients in Group B received a lower median daily dose (425 vs. 568 mg/day, p Conclusions:Experience in the management of sorafenib-related AEs prolongs treatment duration and survival. This factor should be considered in the design of future randomised clinical trials including a sorafenib treatment arm, as an underestimate of sample size may derive.Lay summary:Sorafenib has been the standard frontline systemic treatment for hepatocellular carcinoma for over a decade. Its tolerability is limited by different adverse events, which might lead to its permanent discontinuation in a sizeable proportion of patients. After a careful analysis of potential confounders, we demonstrated that the physicians' experience in managing adverse events related to sorafenib has improved over time, with longer treatment periods and less permanent discontinuation for toxicities. More importantly, these improvements also translated into longer patient survival. Our results have relevant repercussions in clinical practice and in the design of future clinical trials.
Adverse events; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Learning curve; Outcome; Prognosis; Sorafenib.
