31617791
2019 Dec
Background Transarterial chemoembolization with cytotoxic drugs is standard treatment for unresectable intermediate-stage hepatocellular carcinoma but achieves suboptimal outcomes because of hypoxic stress and the production of detrimental proangiogenic factors. An alternative approach using radiopaque embolization beads loaded with the antiangiogenic drug vandetanib may provide improved anticancer efficacy. Purpose To evaluate the pharmacokinetics, safety, and efficacy of vandetanib-eluting radiopaque bead (VERB) chemoembolization of rabbit liver tumors. Materials and Methods Between April 2015 and March 2016, 60 New Zealand white rabbits with VX2 liver tumors were randomly treated with VERBs at different doses, with nonloaded radiopaque beads (ROBs), or with intra-arterial vandetanib suspension (VS) or were not treated. Vandetanib plasma concentration and tumor growth at US were evaluated. Animals were euthanized after 3 days or 3 weeks. Assessment included bead distribution at x-ray imaging and histologic examination, tumor viability at histologic examination, and vandetanib tissue concentration. Group comparison analysis (Mann-Whitney, Kruskal-Wallis, and χ2 tests) and predictive factor analysis for tumor growth and viability were performed. Results Vandetanib plasma concentration was lower with VERBs than with VS (P < .01), while concentration in tumor was higher for VERBs (than for VS) at 3 days (median, 29.2 vs 2.74 ng/mg; P = .48). Tumor growth was lower with VERBs than with ROBs and with VS at both time points, with median values of +114%, +192%, and +466% at 3 weeks, respectively. Tumor viability was lower at 3 days for VERBs than for ROBs and for VS (3%, 18%, and 38%, respectively) but was not significantly different at 3 weeks. The volume of bead in tumor was a significant predictive factor for lower tumor growth in multivariable analysis at 3 days (P = .03). Drug tumor concentration was a significant predictive factor for lower tumor growth at 3 weeks (P = .04). Conclusion Vandetanib-eluting radiopaque bead chemoembolization showed a pharmacokinetic advantage over intra-arterial drug administration in a preclinical model of liver cancer. High deposition of beads and high vandetanib concentration in tumor led to stronger antitumor effects. © RSNA, 2019 Online supplemental material is available for this article. See also the editorial by Kim and Van den Abbeele in this issue.

