31829971
2019 Dec 12
Summary:Denosumab is a fully human MAB that acts as a potent anti-resorptive by inhibiting activation of osteoclasts by inhibiting the receptor activator of nuclear factor-kappa B (RANK) ligand. Hypocalcaemia has been reported as one of the serious adverse sequelae of use of denosumab. We present a case of refractory hypocalcaemia following administration of a single dose of denosumab in a patient with metastatic castrate-resistant prostate cancer. The patient's serum calcium and vitamin D concentrations and renal function were normal prior to denosumab administration. Serum alkaline phosphatase (ALP) level was however elevated pre-morbidly consistent with known bone metastases. The patient was treated with high-dose oral and IV calcium without any appreciable response in serum calcium. During his 30-day hospital admission, he demonstrated disease progression with development of new liver metastases and bone marrow involvement. Normocalcaemia was not achieved despite 1 month of aggressive therapy. Given the patient was asymptomatic and prognosis guarded, he was eventually discharged for ongoing supportive care under the palliative care team.Learning points:Denosumab is a potent anti-resorptive therapy and hypocalcaemia is one of the known adverse effects. Serum calcium and vitamin D concentrations must be replete prior to administration of denosumab to reduce the risk of hypocalcaemia. Denosumab has been proven to be more effective than zoledronic acid in preventing skeletal-related adverse effects in patients with metastatic castrate-resistant prostate cancer.
2019; Adenocarcinoma; Adult; Albumin; Alkaline phosphatase; Australia; Bone; C-telopeptide; Calcitriol; Calcium (serum); Calcium (urine); Calcium carbonate; Calcium citrate*; Calcium gluconate; Cholecalciferol; Cramps; December; Denosumab; Dexamethasone; Fatigue; Hydrochlorothiazide; Hypocalcaemia; Iatrogenic disorder; Liver function; Magnesium; Male; Oncology; PTH; Pancytopaenia; Paraesthesia; Phosphate (serum); Pro-collagen 1*; Prostate cancer; Unique/unexpected symptoms or presentations of a disease; White.
