31822116
2019 Dec
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a widespread, common type of cancer in Asian countries, and the need for biomarker-matched molecularly targeted therapy for HCC has been increasingly recognized. However, the effective treatment for HCC is unclear. Therefore, identifying additional hub genes and pathways as novel prognostic biomarkers for HCC is necessary. In this study, the expression profiles of GSE121248, GSE45267 and GSE84402 were obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO), including 132 HCC and 90 noncancerous liver tissues. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between HCC and noncancerous samples were identified by GEO2 R and Venn diagrams. In total, 109 DEGs were identified in these datasets, including 24 upregulated genes and 85 downregulated genes. Subsequently, Gene Ontology (GO) enrichment and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) preliminary analyses of the DEGs were performed using DAVID. The protein-protein interaction (PPI) network of the DEGs was constructed with the Search Tool for the Retrieval of Interacting Genes (STRING) and visualized in Cytoscape. Module analysis of the PPI network was performed using MCODE to get hub genes. Moreover, the influence of the hub genes on overall survival was determined with Kaplan-Meier plotter. All hub genes were analyzed by Gene Expression Profiling Interactive Analysis (GEPIA) and KEGG. Overall, the hub genes DTL, CDK1, CCNB1, RACGAP1, ECT2, NEK2, BUB1B, PBK, TOP2A, ASPM, HMMR, RRM2, CDKN3, PRC1, and ANLN were upregulated in HCC, and the survival rate was lower for HCC with increased expression of these hub genes. CCNB1, CDK1, and RRM2 were enriched in the p53 signaling pathway, and CCNB1, CDK1, and BUB1B were enriched in the cell cycle. In brief, we screened 15 hub genes and pathways to identify potential prognostic markers for HCC treatment. However, the specific occurrence and development of HCC with expression of the hub genes should be verified in vivo and in vitro.
bioinformatics analysis; hepatocellular carcinoma; hub genes; prognostic biomarkers.
