31839809
2019 Dec 4
Background:Stereotactic ablative radiotherapy (SABR) can deliver tumoricidal doses and achieve long-term control in early hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). However, limited studies have investigated the safety and effectiveness of SABR in patients with advanced diseases that is unsuitable for transarterial chemoembolization (TACE).Methods:In this observational study, we reviewed the medical records of patients with Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer (BCLC) stage C disease treated with linear accelerator-based SABR between 2008 and 2016. Their tumors were either refractory to TACE or TACE was contraindicated. Overall survival (OS), in-field progression-free survival (IFPFS), and out-field progression-free survival were calculated using Kaplan-Meier analysis. The Cox regression model was used to examine the effects of variables. Treatment-related toxicities were scored according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (version 4.03) and whether patients developed radiation-induced liver disease (RILD) after SABR.Results:This study included 32 patients. The mean maximal tumor diameter and tumor volumes were 4.7 cm and 135.9 ml, respectively. Patients received linear accelerator-based SABR with a median prescribed dose of 48 Gy (30-60 Gy) in three to six fractions. Based on the assessment of treatment response by using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (version 1.1), 19% of patients achieved a complete response and 53% achieved a partial response. After a median follow-up of 18.1 months (4.0-65.9 months), 10, 19, and 9 patients experienced in-field failure, out-field hepatic recurrence, and extrahepatic metastases, respectively. The estimated 2-year OS and IFPFS rates were 54.4% and 62.7%, respectively. In a multivariate analysis, a pretreatment Cancer of the Liver Italian Program (CLIP) score of ⩾2 (p = 0.01) was a prognostic factor for shorter OS, and a biologically effective dose (BED) of < 85 Gy10 (p = 0.011) and a Child-Pugh score of ⩾6 (p = 0.014) were prognostic factors for inferior IFPFS. In this study five and eight patients developed classic and nonclassic RILD, respectively.Conclusions:SABR can serve as a salvage treatment for patients with HCC with BCLC stage C disease unsuitable for TACE, in particular, in those with a baseline CLIP score of ⩽1. A BED10 of ⩾85 Gy is an appropriate prescribed dose for tumor control. Because out-field relapse is the major cause of treatment failure, SABR in combination with novel systemic modalities should be investigated in future studies.
Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer stage C; Stereotactic ablative radiotherapy; hepatocellular carcinoma; radiation-induced liver disease; transarterial chemoembolization.
