31871924
2019 Dec 2
Background:Long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) have been known to play important roles in the progression of various types of human cancer. LncRNA GATA3 antisense RNA 1, GATA3-AS1, has been reported to be associated with T-cell development and differentiation. However, the expression pattern and function of GATA3-AS1 in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remain unknown.Methods:Real-time quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) assay was conducted to detect GATA3-AS1 expression levels in 80 cases of pairs HCC tissues and matched normal tissues. Chi-squared (χ 2) test was used to analyze the correlation between GATA3-AS1 expression and clinicopathologic variables. Survival curves were plotted using the Kaplan-Meier method and were compared via the log-rank test. The cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8) and wound scratch assays were applied to detect the effect of GATA3-AS1 knockdown and overexpression on cell growth and migration of HCC. RT-qPCR was performed for the detection of the phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN), cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 1A (CDKN1A), and tumor protein p53 (TP53) expression in HCC cells after GATA3-AS1 knockdown and overexpression.Results:GATA3-AS1 was significantly upregulated in HCC tissues compared with matched normal tissues. The high expression of GATA3-AS1 was significantly correlated with larger tumor size, advanced TNM stage, and more lymph node metastasis. High GATA3-AS1 expression was markedly correlated with shorter overall survival times of HCC patients. Furthermore, knockdown of GATA3-AS1 obviously inhibited Hep3B and HCCLM3 cell growth and migration, whereas overexpression of GATA3-AS1 had the opposite effects. In addition, GATA3-AS1 knockdown resulted in upregulated expression levels of tumor-suppressive genes, PTEN, CDKN1A, and TP53, in Hep3B and HCCLM3 cells, while restoration of GATA3-AS1 decreased PTEN, CDKN1A, and TP53 expression levels.Conclusion:Our data suggested that GATA3-AS1 promotes cell proliferation and metastasis of HCC by suppression of PTEN, CDKN1A, and TP53.

