31888534
2019 Dec 30
Background:Statin has been more and more widely used in chronic liver disease, however, existed studies have attained contradictory results. According to the present study, we aimed to test the efficacy and safety of statin via a meta-analysis.Methods:Different databases were searched for full-text publication based on inclusion and exclusion criteria. For data-pooling, fixed-effect model was applied if heterogeneity wasn't detected. Otherwise, random-effect model was adopted. Heterogeneity was detected by I squire (I2) test. All results of analysis were illustrated as forest plots. Publication bias was assessed using the Begg's adjusted rank correlation test. Standard mean difference (SMD) was calculated in continuous variables. Pooled hazard ratio or odds ratio was calculated in catergorical variables.Results:Seventeen clinical studies were finally included. Hepatic portal hemodynamic parameters were improved in statin users for a short-term response. For a long-term follow-up, statin treatment surprisingly decreased mortality rate (HR = 0.782, 95% CI: 0.718-0.846, I2 > 50%) and lower the occurrence of hepatocellular carcinoma (HR = 0.75, 95% CI: 0.64-0.86, I2 > 50%) in liver cirrhosis. Statin seemed not to decrease the risk of esophageal variceal bleeding and spontaneous bacterial peritonitis. However, statin was proved to decrease the risk of hepatic encephalopathy and ascites. Incidence of drug related adverse events didn't increase in statin users. Dose-dependent effects of statin on hepatocellular carcinoma development, decompensated cirrhosis events occurrence, and liver cirrhosis progression.Conclusion:Statin influenced parameters of hepatic portal vessel pressure in short-term treatment. Prognosis of liver cirrhosis benefited from statin treatment in long term follow-up. The efficacy and safety of statin in liver cirrhosis treatment is confirmed. To date, similar study is hardly seen before.
Complication; Liver cirrhosis; Meta-analysis; Portal hypertension; Statin.
