31908394
2019 Dec 28
Background:Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a common malignant gastrointestinal tumor. There are currently few clinical diagnostic and prognostic markers for HCC. LncRNA cancer susceptibility candidate 9 (CASC9) is a long-chain non-coding RNA discovered in recent years, and previous studies have found that lncRNA CASC9 participates in the occurrence and development of HCC, but its clinical value remains unclear.Aim:To determine the expression of lncRNA CASC9 in HCC and its diagnostic and prognostic value.Methods:Data on CASC9 expression in patients with HCC were collected from the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database to analyze the relationship between CASC9 and patient survival. A total of 80 HCC patients treated in The First Affiliated Hospital of Guangxi Medical University from May 2012 to January 2014 were enrolled in the patient group, and 50 healthy subjects were enrolled in the control group during the same period. CASC9 expression in the two groups was determined using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction, and its diagnostic and prognostic value was analyzed based on the CASC9 data and pathological data in these HCC patients. The relationship between CASC9 and patient survival was assessed during the 5-year follow-up period.Results:Analysis of data from TCGA database revealed that control samples showed significantly lower CASC9 expression than carcinoma tissue samples (P < 0.001); the low CASC9 expression group had a higher survival rate than the high CASC9 expression group (P = 0.011), and the patient group showed significantly increased expression of serum CASC9, with the area under the curve (AUC) of 0.933. CASC9 expression was related to tumor size, combined hepatitis, tumor, node, metastasis (TNM) staging, lymph node metastasis, differentiation and alpha fetoprotein, and the high CASC9 expression group showed lower 1-year, 3-year and 5-year survival rates than the low CASC9 expression group (all a P < 0.05). Multivariate Cox regression analysis revealed that TNM staging, lymph node metastasis, differentiation, alpha fetoprotein and CASC9 were independent factors affecting the prognosis of patients. Stage I+II patients with lymph node metastasis, low differentiation, and alpha fetoprotein > 200 ng/mL had a poor 5-year survival rate.Conclusion:High CASC9 expression is beneficial in the prognosis of HCC patients. CASC9 is expected to be a potential diagnostic and prognostic indicator of HCC.
Competing endogenous RNA; Gene Ontology; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes; LncRNA cancer susceptibility candidate 9; Prognosis.
