32372163
2019 Dec 16
Background:Cancer of cervix often fails locally and/or within the pelvis. One to two percent of cervical squamous cell carcinoma patients have lung metastases at presentation, and 5-35% develop pulmonary metastases later on. Common sites of metastases are the liver, bone, and bowel. We report a rare case presentation of cervical squamous cell cancer where heterochronous metastasis occurred in the skin, spleen, and pancreas without loco-regional recurrence and skipping of visceral organs such as the lung, liver, and brain.Case presentation:A 55-year-old, postmenopausal lady presented with a complaint of bleeding of the vagina for 2 months duration. Cervical biopsy revealed squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix, and she was staged as a case of FIGO stage IIIB. She received external beam-beam radiotherapy of 50 Gy in 25 fractions along with concurrent weekly cisplatin at 35 mg/m2 followed by 3 fractions of intracavitary brachytherapy of 6 Gy each. After 30 months of follow-up, she presented with a skin lesion of 6 × 5 cm2 in the infrascapular region for 2 months duration. Biopsy revealed metastatic squamous cell carcinoma. Her metastatic work-up revealed no other lesions. Palliative radiotherapy to local site of 8 Gy in single fraction was delivered. The lesion disappeared within 4 weeks. She was given 6 cycles of cisplatin and paclitaxel salvage chemotherapy. After 30 months of follow-up, she presented with a skin lesion of 6 × 5 cm2 in the infrascapular region. Biopsy revealed metastatic squamous cell carcinoma. Her metastatic work-up revealed no other lesions. Palliative radiotherapy to the local site was planned, and a dose of 8 Gy in a single fraction was delivered. The lesion disappeared within 4 weeks. She was given 6 cycles of cisplatin and paclitaxel salvage chemotherapy. Six months after the completion of salvage therapy, she reported with the complaints of recurrent bouts of hematemesis and melena. Her CECT scan revealed 2 × 1.5 cm2 growth in the body of the pancreas and a subcentric splenic hilum node. She underwent open splenectomy with distal pancreatectomy. Histopathology report showed metastatic infiltration in pancreatic tissue by squamous cell carcinoma and one metastatic node in the splenic hilum. Post-treatment, 6 months, the patient was asymptomatic with no recurrence.Conclusions:This is a rare heterochronous metastatic presentation of cervical cancer without loco-regional recurrence and visceral organs such as the lung, liver, and brain. The optimal treatment remains undefined for these patients. Multimodality treatment is necessary to manage the patients.
Carcinoma of the uterine cervix; Cutaneous; Pancreatic metastasis; Splenic.
