23689218
2013
Background:The mortality from non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) in China is increasing, and studies about clinical characteristics of recent NSCLC are rare. The primary objective of this study was to explore clinical features in a large general hospital in Northwest China, and to determine risk factors for stage, pathology and survival, with a view to prevention and treatment of NSCLC as well as establishment and improvement of national medical insurance policies.Patients and methods:We retrospectively analyzed the characteristics of NSCLC patients (n = 274), as well as risk factors for advanced stage and squamous cell carcinoma (SCC). Survival features in different groups were analyzed, as well as risk factors of survival. Follow-up was at least 3 years.Results:179 were male (65.3%); 136 had adenocarcinoma (49.6%) and 109 had SCC (39.8%); 186 (67.9%) had advanced-stage disease (IIIB-IV); 130 (47.4%) had smoking habits; 195 came from an urban area (71.2%); 69 had local urban resident basic medical insurance; 58% were younger than 60 years. Female, adenocarcinoma, rural patients were significantly younger than male, SCC, and urban patients. Pathology was the only independent risk factor for advanced stage. Age, sex, and smoking status were independent prognostic factors for SCC. The proportion of male SCC was higher than female SCC even without the influence of smoking. Without local urban resident basic medical insurance, higher stage and not having surgery, but not smoking status, were independent risk factors for lower median progression-free survival (PFS). Patients with adenocarcinoma and SCC in advanced stage accepting EGFR-TKI during treatment had a higher 1-year survival rate and longer overall survival (OS) compared with those never accepting EGFR-TKI. EGFR-TKI treatment and chemotherapy regimen numbers were independent risk factor for median OS in advanced adenocarcinoma and SCC patients.Conclusion:More prevention and screening should be carried out for the female and rural population. EGFR-TKI could benefit advanced NSCLCs. China's medical insurance policy has some adverse effect on NSCLC survival calling for further improvement.

