23861584
2013
Diosmin (DSN) is an outstanding phlebotonic flavonoid with a tolerable potential for the treatment of colon and hepatocellular carcinoma. Being highly insoluble, DSN bioavailability suffers from high inter-subject variation due to variable degrees of permeation. This work endeavored to develop novel DSN loaded phytosomes in order to improve drug dissolution and intestinal permeability. Three preparation methods (solvent evaporation, salting out, and lyophilization) were compared. Nanocarrier optimization encompassed different soybean phospholipid (SPC) types, different solvents, and different DSN:SPC molar ratios (1:1, 1:2, and 1:4). In vitro appraisal encompassed differential scanning calorimetry, infrared spectroscopy, particle size, zeta potential, polydispersity index, transmission electron microscopy, drug content, and in vitro stability. Comparative dissolution studies were performed under sink versus non-sink conditions. Ex vivo intestinal permeation studies were performed on rats utilizing noneverted sac technique and high-performance liquid chromatography analysis. The results revealed lyophilization as the optimum preparation technique using SPC and solvent mixture (Dimethyl sulphoxide:t-butylalchol) in a 1:2 ratio. Complex formation was contended by differential scanning calorimetry and infrared data. Optimal lyophilized phytosomal nanocarriers (LPNs) exhibited the lowest particle size (316 nm), adequate zeta-potential (-27 mV), and good in vitro stability. Well formed, discrete vesicles were revealed by transmission electron microscopy, drug content, and in vitro stability. Comparative dissolution studies were performed. LPNs demonstrated significant enhancement in DSN dissolution compared to crude drug, physical mixture, and generic and brand DSN products. Permeation studies revealed 80% DSN permeated from LPNs via oxygenated rat intestine compared to non-detectable amounts from suspension. In this study, LPNs (99% drug loading) could be successfully tailored for DSN with improved dissolution and permeation characteristics, which is promising for lowering the influence of exogenous factors and increasing drug delivery.
flavonoids; nanomedicine; phosphatidylcholine complex.
