24247078
2014
Ethnopharmacological relevance:Astragalus membranaceus and Salvia miltiorrhiza have been used for centuries in China to treat liver diseases. Previous studies have shown that these herbs and their extracts inhibit the development of liver fibrosis and the proliferation and invasion of human hepatoma HepG2 cells. Further study of their pharmacological effects on hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is needed. To investigate the effects of Compound Astragalus and Salvia miltiorrhiza Extract (CASE) on diethylinitrosamine (DEN)-induced hepatocarcinogenesis in rats.Materials and methods:Male rats were divided into five groups, with the first group serving as normal control, the second group receiving 0.2% DEN solution five times a week for 14 weeks, and the third to fifth group receiving the same DEN as in the second group together with CASE at the doses of 60, 120, and 240 mg/kg per day for 16 weeks, respectively. Hepatoma incidence, serum enzymes levels, degree of fibrosis and hydroxyproline content were evaluated and compared across the five groups to determine CASE's suppression of fibrosis and HCC progression. In addition, an in vitro experiment using HepG2 cells was conduct to verify CASE's effect on the transcription of plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) mRNA.Results:CASE treatment significantly reduced the incidence and multiplicity of DEN-induced HCC development in a dose-dependent manner. It significantly suppressed the elevation of alanine transaminase, aspartate aminotransferase, gamma-glutamyl transferase, alkaline phosphatase, hyaluronic acid, direct bilirubin and total bilirubin, and significantly lessened the depression of serum total protein in DEN-induced HCC rats. CASE treatment also significantly suppressed the elevated expression of GST-P and α-SMA. The in vitro experiment confirmed that CASE inhibits the transcription of PAI-1 mRNA in HepG2 cells induced by TGF-β1 in a dose-dependent manner.Conclusions:CASE suppresses DEN-induced hepatocarcinogenesis by inhibiting fibrosis and PAI-1 mRNA transcription, suggesting its potential clinical application in preventing and treating human HCC.
Compound Astragalus and Salvia miltiorrhiza extract; Diethylnitrosamine; Hepatic fibrosis; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Plasminogen activator inhibitor.
