22964146
2012 Apr
Objective:To assess the value of an infusion-based separation technique to assist in ultrasound (US)-guided percutaneous radiofrequency ablation (RFA) of liver cancers abutting the liver edge.Methods:Twenty-four cases of malignant liver tumors abutting the hepatic edge were treated with US-guided puncture accompanied by the assistant infusion technique. The US-guided puncture was made with a 22-G needle through the hepatic tissue and into the abdominal cavity near the target tumor. Infusion of a saline solution was used to separate the liver from any surrounding structures so that percutaneous RFA could be safely performed. Complications, including gastrointestinal injury, hemorrhage and death, were recorded. Technical efficacy and safety were evaluated.Results:Among the 24 patients, the target tumors were adjacent to the right kidney (n=6), colon (n=6), stomach (n=5), pericardium (n=4), and gall bladder (n=3). Twenty-three patients received a successful radical percutaneous RFA with assistant infusion. The assistant infusion volumes ranged from 80-390 ml and created spaces ranging from 0.8-2.5 cm between the liver and surrounding structures. Five of the cases with tumors adjacent to the stomach or colon received the largest volume infusions. The infusion failed to create a separation space in only one case, due to the presence of an adhesion; as a result, this patient was treated with palliative RFA. The mean hospital stay for all 24 patients was four days after surgery. No severe complications or deaths occurred. At 1-month follow-up, computed tomography images showed that 22 cases had complete ablation, yielding a technical success rate of 95.7% (22/23). No needle track implantation was observed.Conclusion:Assistant infusion for percutaneous radiofrequency ablation creates a protective space between the liver and surrounding structures in patients with liver tumors abutting the liver edge. This safe and effective assistant technique broadens the range of patients available for percutaneous RFA treatment.

