28954528
2018 Mar
Atherosclerosis is a chronic inflammatory vascular disease characterized by lipid accumulation and endothelial dysfunction. Cytoglobin has been shown to exert protective effects under oxidative stress conditions. The aim of this study was to determine whether recombinant human cytoglobin (rhCYGB) has protective effects against atherosclerosis. We intraperitoneally injected rhCYGB (0, 4, or 7 mg/kg BW) into the atherosclerotic rats daily for 60 days. The rhCYGB injections reduced low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels and increased high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels in a dose-dependent manner, rhCYGB (7 mg/kg) significantly attenuated atherosclerosis. Blood proteins were separated by 2-dimensional electrophoresis and analyzed by mass spectrometry, and the majority of the proteins in question were participated in oxidative stress pathways and cardiovascular diseases. Human hepatocellular liver carcinoma cell line (HepG2) cells were treated with oleic acid (0.3 mmol/L), and Human acute monocytic leukemia cell line (THP-1) cells were incubated with oxidized LDL (ox-LDL; 50 µg/mL) to induce foam cell (FC) formation in vitro. Treatment with different concentrations of rhCYGB (0, 5, 10, and 15 μg/mL) significantly decreased the lipid droplet levels in HepG2 cells and cholesterol ester levels in FCs. Moreover, rhCYGB significantly increased superoxide dismutase and glutathione peroxidase activity and decreased malondialdehyde and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate oxidase activity in cells. In addition, rhCYGB decreased NO and Reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels in FCs by functioning as an NO dioxygenase enzyme and ROS scavenger. Taken together, our findings indicate that rhCYGB prevented atherosclerosis by regulating lipid metabolism and oxidative stress. Our study provides insights into the possible usefulness of rhCYGB as an antiatherosclerosis agent.
atherosclerosis; lipid metabolism; oxidative stress; proteomics; rhCYGB.
