29106686
2018 Mar 1
Drug-induced liver injury (DILI) is a leading cause of drug attrition during drug development and a common reason for drug withdrawal from the market. The poor predictability of conventional animal-based approaches necessitates the development of alternative testing approaches. A body of evidence associates DILI with the induction of stress-response genes in liver cells. Here, we set out to identify signal transduction pathways predominantly involved in the regulation of gene transcription by DILI drugs. To this end, we employed ATTAGENE's cell-based multiplexed reporter assay, the FACTORIAL transcription factor (TF), that enables quantitative assessment of the activity of multiple stress-responsive TFs in a single well of cells. Homogeneous reporter system enables quantitative functional assessment of multiple transcription factors. Nat. Methods 5, 253-260). Using this assay, we assessed TF responses of the human hepatoma cell line HepG2 to a panel of 64 drug candidates, including 23 preclinical DILI and 11 clinical DILI compounds and 30 nonhepatotoxic compounds from a diverse physicochemical property space. We have identified 16 TF families that specifically responded to DILI drugs, including nuclear factor (erythroid-derived 2)-like 2 antioxidant response element, octamer, hypoxia inducible factor 1 alpha, farnesoid-X receptor, TCF/beta-catenin, aryl hydrocarbon receptor, activator protein-1, E2F, early growth response-1, metal-response transcription factor 1, sterol regulatory element-binding protein, paired box protein, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor, liver X receptor, interferone regulating factor, and P53, and 2 promoters that responded to multiple TFs (cytomegalovirus and direct repeat 3/vitamin D receptor). Some of TFs identified here also have previously defined role in pathogenesis of liver diseases. These data demonstrate the utility of cost-effective, animal-free, TF profiling assay for detecting DILI potential of drug candidates at early stages of drug development.

