29289495
2018 Mar
Purpose:To systematically review mechanism of action, pharmacokinetics (PKs), efficacy, and safety of ethiodized oil-based locoregional therapy (LRT) for liver cancer in preclinical models.Materials and methods:A MEDLINE search was performed from 1988 to 2016. Search terms included hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), HCC, liver-cell carcinoma, liver, hepatic, hepatocarcinoma, transarterial or chemoembolization, TACE, animal, Lipiodol, Ethiodol, iodized oil, and/or poppy-seed oil. Inclusion criteria were: publication in a peer-reviewed journal, an accepted animal model, and PK/safety/efficacy data reported. Exclusion criteria were: inadequate PK, safety, or efficacy data; anticancer drug name/dose not available; and article not in English. Outcomes included intratumoral anticancer drug uptake, PKs, tolerance, tumor response, and survival.Results:Of 102 identified articles, 49 (49%) met the inclusion criteria. Seventeen, 35, and 2 articles used rat, rabbit, and pig models. Mechanism of action was investigated in 11 articles. Eleven articles reported drug uptake, PK, and tolerance data, showing 0.5%-9.5% of injected chemotherapy dose in tumor. Tumor-to-liver drug distribution ratios were 2-157. Toxicology data across 6 articles showed transient liver laboratory level elevations 1 day after LRT. There was no noteworthy liver or extrahepatic histologic damage. Nine articles reported tumor response, with 0%-30% viable tumor and -10% to -38% tumor growth at 7 days after LRT. Two articles reported survival, showing significantly longer survival after LRT vs untreated controls (56/60 d vs 33/28 d). Several articles described ethiodized oil mixed with radiopharmaceutical (n = 7), antiangiogenic (n = 6), gene (n = 6), nanoembolic (n = 5), immune (n = 2), or other novel (n = 1) agents.Conclusions:Animal studies show preferential tumor uptake of anticancer agent, good hepatic/systemic tolerance, high tumor response, and enhanced survival after ethiodized oil-based LRT.

