29579861
2018 Mar
Background:The outcome of orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT) for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is excellent if it is performed within the Milan criteria (ie, single tumor less than 5 cm or 3 tumors less than 3 cm each one and no macrovascular invasion). However, after a few studies, it has become possible to have a similar survival expanding those criteria. The aim of this study is to evaluate the survival of patients with advanced HCC who, after downstaging, did not met the Milan criteria although they were within the "up to seven" benchmark, and were transplanted at our center in the last 5 years.Patients and methods:This is a retrospective study of patients who underwent OLT for HCC in the last 5 years in our center exceeding Milan criteria despite remaining within the "up to seven" benchmark. An observational study of associated factors with overall survival based on patient characteristics after OLT was performed. For the statistical study, the statistical program SPSS v. 17.0 (Chicago, Illinois, United States) was used.Results:We studied 95 patients who had been transplanted for HCC in this period, 11 of whom met the study requirements. There were 10 (91%) males and 1 female. The mean age of the patients was 54.73 ± 8.75 years, with an average waiting list time of 279 days. Nine patients had a Child A status, with a mean Model for End-stage Liver Disease score of 9.64 (range, 6 to 16). The most frequent etiology of cirrhosis was hepatitis C virus infection in 6 patients (50%) followed by hepatitis B virus infection and ethanolic and cryptogenic cirrhosis. Ten patients (91%) had at least one pretransplantation transarterial chemoembolization. The survival of patients after 1 year was 75%, whereas after 4 years that rate decreases to 25%. At this time, we do not have any patients with a 5-year survival rate. The longest survival rate is 55 months.Conclusions:Although the expanded indication of transplantation in HCC raises controversies, especially after downstaging, it is possible to provide acceptable survival rates for patients within the expanded criteria of "up to seven" after locoregional therapies. The performance of a liver transplant in the patient profile shown in this article should also be evaluated from the perspective of the relative lack of organs for transplantation.

