29575841
2018 Mar 23
Objective: To assess application of reconstruction of retrohepatic inferior vena cava using artificial blood vessel in right lobe living donor liver transplantation (LDLT) in the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) beyond Milan Criteria. Methods: The clinical data of 9 HCC patients who underwent right lobe liver transplantation after reconstruction of retrohepatic inferior vena cava using artificial blood vessel between June 2015 and Nov 2016 at Liver Transplantation Center of the First Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing Medical University were retrospectively analyzed. The liver of the patients was removed with retrohepatic inferior vena cava, and then the right donor graft was implanted by conventional orthotopic liver transplantation. Results: All 9 liver transplantations were performed successfully. The time of reconstruction of hepatic venous outflow of the donor graft was (22.6±3.0) min, anhepatic time was (45.0±7.1) min, and total operation time was (321.9±52.5) min. All patients recovered uneventfully, ICU and hospital stay day were (1.2±0.4) days and (18.4±3.0) days. 2 patients suffered from thrombosis of artificial blood vessel, one recovered after conservative treatment and another was treated by placement of vein stent. No abdominal/pulmonary infection and non-artificial blood vascular complications were found, and none died in perioperative period. Postoperative pathological results showed that all patients were hepatocellular carcinomas and vascular tumor thrombosis was found in 5 cases. All patients were follow up, 1 patient died of pulmonary and brain metastasis 10 months after operation. One patient survived with local recurrence of tumor in liver. The other patients had no tumor recurrence and metastasis. Conclusion: Replacement of retrohepatic inferior vena cava using artificial blood vessel in right lobe living donor liver transplantation is safe and feasible in the treatment of HCC beyond Milan Criteria, and might improve the resection rate of diseased liver and the prognosis of HCC patients after living donor liver transplantation.
Artificial blood vessel; Carcinoma, hepatocellular; Living donor liver transplantation; Retrohepatic inferior vena cava; Right lobe.
