29743797
2018 Mar
Background and aims:As liver cirrhosis is a dynamic condition, it is possible to improve survival in decompensated cirrhosis. Hence, we planned a prospective study to determine the natural history of cirrhosis after first decompensation.Methods:We enrolled all patients of liver cirrhosis who presented with first episode of decompensation defined by the presence of ascites, either overt or detected by Ultrasonography (UD), Gastroesophageal Variceal Bleeding (GEVB), and Hepatic Encephalopathy (HE). All patients were followed up to death/liver transplant or at least for the period of 1 year. Multivariable Cox proportional hazards regression was used to analyze the risk of failure (death or Orthotopic Liver Transplantation (OLT)).Results:In total of 110 cirrhotic patients (93 males, mean age 50 ± 11 years), the most frequent etiology was alcohol (48%), followed by nonalcoholic steatohepatitis/cryptogenic (26%), hepatitis B (10%), autoimmune hepatitis (7%), and hepatitis C (6%). The distribution of CTP classes was: 4%, 56%, and 41% in class A, B, and C, respectively. Ascites was the most common decompensation found in 88 patients (80%) followed by HE (14%) and GEVB (6%). At 1-year follow up, transplant free survival was 78%, 2 underwent OLT, 4 developed hepatocellular carcinoma, and 24 died. Cumulative incidence of failure (death or OLT) by type of decompensation after 1 year was: 22% overt ascites, 50% GEVB, 28% UD ascites, 20% HE, and 33% ascites and GEVB concomitant.Conclusions:Patients with UD ascites do not have a negligible mortality rate as compared to overt ascites. Patients with cirrhosis after first decompensation have better transplant free survival with treatment of etiology and complications than previously mentioned in literature.
ACLF, Acute-on-Chronic Liver Failure; AIH, Autoimmune Hepatitis; APASL, Asian Pacific Association for the Study of the Liver; CI, Confidence Interval; GEVB, Gastroesophageal Variceal Bleeding; GI, Gastrointestinal; HBV, Hepatitis B Virus; HCC, Hepatocellular Carcinoma; HCV, Hepatitis C Virus; HE, Hepatic Encephalopathy; HRS, Hepatorenal Syndrome; MELD, Model for End-Stage Liver Disease; NASH, Nonalcoholic Steatohepatitis; OLT, Orthotopic Liver Transplantation; PPI, Proton Pump Inhibitor; SAAG, Serum-Ascites Albumin Gradient; SBP, Spontaneous Bacterial Peritonitis; UD, Ultrasonography; ascites; hepatic encephalopathy; hepatocellular carcinoma; liver transplant; survival.
