29900041
2018 Mar 13
We previously demonstrated that neurotensin (NTS) induces local inflammation and promotes tumor invasion in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). However, the underlying molecular mechanisms are not clear. In this study, positive correlations between NTS and interleukin (IL)-8 were identified at both the mRNA and protein levels in 71 fresh HCC tissues and 100 paraffin-embedded HCC tissues. Furthermore, significant correlations were determined among the co-expression of NTS and IL-8, infiltration of inflammatory cells and enhanced epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) of HCC cells. NTS-induced IL-8 production was associated with activation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) pathways rather than the protein kinase C (PKC) and phosphoinositide-3 kinase (PI3K) pathways, whose specific antagonists significantly inhibited activation of the NTS/IL-8 pathway. IL-8, which promoted EMT and HCC invasion both in vitro and in vivo, was produced by NTS-induced HCC cells and was effectively attenuated by blocking IL-8 receptors in vitro. Moreover, HCC-derived IL-8 attracted more CD68+ tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) and CD66b+ polymorphonuclear neutrophils (PMNs) to the local microenvironment, displaying enhanced cytokine secretion and phagocytosis. IL-8 stimulated the M2 polarization of TAMs, which promoted the EMT and invasive potential of HCC cells. Blockage of the IL-8 receptor, NTR1 receptor or both significantly reduced HCC metastases in tumor-bearing mouse models via inhibiting EMT. In summary, aberrant activation of the NTS/IL-8 pathway in HCC dramatically stimulated the invasive potential of HCC cells. HCC-derived IL-8 promoted a pro-oncogenic inflammatory microenvironment by inducing M2-type TAMs and indirectly promoting EMT, which might be a valuable therapeutic target to prevent tumor progression.
Neurotensin; epithelial-mesenchymal transition; hepatocellular carcinoma; interleukin-8; tumor-associated macrophages.
