30569404
2019 Mar
The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) is a nuclear receptor that facilitates a wide transcriptional response and causes a variety of adaptive and maladaptive physiological functions. Such functions are entirely dependent on the type of ligand activating it, and therefore, the nuances in the activation of this receptor at the single-cell level have become a research interest for different pharmacological and toxicological applications. Here, we investigate the activation of the AhR by diverse classes of compounds in a Hepa1c1c7-based murine hepatoma cell line. The exogenous compounds analyzed produced different levels of ultrasensitivity in AhR activation as measured by XRE-coupled EGFP production and analyzed by both flow cytometric and computational simulation techniques. Interestingly, simulation experiments reported herein were able to reproduce and quantitate the natural single-cell stochasticity inherent to mammalian cell lines as well as the ligand-specific differences in ultrasensitivity. Classical AhR modulators 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzodioxin (10- 1-105 pM), PCB-126 (10- 1-107 pM), and benzo[a]pyrene (10- 1-107 pM) produced the greatest levels of single-cell ultrasensitivity and most maximal responses, while consumption-based ligands indole-3-carbinol (103-109 pM), 3,3'-diindolylmethane (103-108 pM), and cannabidiol (103-108 pM) caused low-level AhR activation in more purely graded single-cell fashions. All compounds were tested and analyzed over a 24 h period for consistency. The comparative quantitative results for each compound are presented within. This study aids in defining the disparity between different types of AhR modulators that produce distinctly different physiological outcomes. In addition, the simulation tool developed for this study can be used in future studies to predict the quantitative effects of diverse types of AhR ligands in the context of pharmacological therapies or toxicological concerns.
Aryl hydrocarbon receptor; Computational simulation; Receptor dynamics; Ultrasensitivity; Xenobiotic.
