23291135
2012 Nov
Objective:To assess the value of application of percutaneous radiofrequency ablation (RFA) with artificial hydrothorax for liver cancer in the hepatic dome.Methods:Thirty-two patients with 43 lesions of hepatic malignant tumors in the hepatic dome underwent ultrasound-guided percutaneous radiofrequency ablation (RFA) with artificial hydrothorax. Artificial hydrothorax was created by infusion of saline via an intrathoracically placed 14-G central venous catheter, which was ultrasound-guided percutaneously inserted before RFA, separating the right lung from the hepatic dome. The adverse reaction and therapeutic efficacy were also analyzed.Results:In the 32 patients with 43 lesions in the hepatic dome (4 tumors in segment IV 21 tumors in segment VII and 18 tumors in segment VIII), 18 lesions of 14 patients were not observed by ultrasound before the operation. Thirty-two patients received the ultrasound-guided placement of intrathoracical catheter, and (1606.3 ± 485.9) ml (1000 - 2500 ml) saline solution was infused successfully. After obtaining an image of the whole tumor, 31 patients received percutaneous RFA therapy on schedule, and 22 patients received percutaneous transdiaphragmatic RFA therapy. One patient with 2 lesions gave up the treatment, because one of his tumors was not detectable by ultrasound. Diaphragmatic muscle hemorrhage was seen in two patients, subcutaneous edema in two patients, and pneumothorax in one patient. All the complications were cured, and no serious complications or related death occurred. 1-month follow-up with contrast-enhanced CT/MRI images showed that 29 patients had complete ablation, and the effective rate of this technique was 93.5% (29/31).Conclusions:Artificial hydrothorax helps us not only to visualize the whole tumor in the hepatic dome, but also offers a transdiaphragmatic route for therapy. Ultrasound-guided percutaneous RFA with artificial hydrothorax is a feasible, safe, and effective technique for treating liver cancer in the hepatic dome and worthy of being promoted.

