24488484
2014 Aug
Purpose:Methionine (Met) could be a useful imaging biomarker for the diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), as demonstrated by PET imaging with L-[methyl-(11)C]-Met. In HCC cells, protein synthesis mainly contributes to radiopharmaceutical uptake. In contrast, lipid synthesis via the phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) methylation pathway is the major metabolic route of L-[methyl-(11)C]-Met in normal hepatocytes, which contributes to the background contrast observed in PET images. However, the mechanisms of amino acid transport and the roles of the two key enzymes, methionine adenosyltransferase (MAT) and phosphatidylethanolamine N-methyltransferase (PEMT), are not yet completely understood. The aim of this study was to investigate the roles of the amino acid transporters and these two key enzymes in the uptake of L-[methyl-(11)C]-Met in HCC cells.Procedures:A well-differentiated woodchuck HCC cell line, WCH17, was used for the study. The amino acid transporter of WCH17 cells was assayed to investigate the Met transport process in HCC. WCH17 cells were treated with 5 mM S-adenosylmethionine (SAM) for 8, 16, 24, and 48 h to downregulate MAT2A gene expression. Control or SAM-treated WCH17 cells were pulsed with L-[methyl-(3)H]-Met for 5 min and chased with cold media to mimic the rapid blood clearance of radiolabeled Met (pulse-chase experiment). In parallel, WCH17 cells were transfected with a mouse liver PEMT2 expression vector, and the pulse-chase experiment was performed to investigate the uptake of the radiolabeled Met in HCC cells. The water-soluble, protein, and lipid phases from the total uptake were subsequently extracted and measured, respectively.Results:Met was transported into HCC cells via a facilitative transport process, which was characterized as system L and ASC-like, Na(+) dependent, and low affinity with partial energy dependence. The total uptake of L-[methyl-(3)H]-Met was decreased in HCC cells with SAM treatment. This reduction pattern followed that of MAT2A expression (the duration of SAM treatment). The incorporated (3)H was mostly distributed in the protein phase and, to a lesser degree, in the lipid phase via PE methylation pathway in HCC cells with SAM treatment. The downregulated MAT2A expression led to the decreased uptake in protein and water-soluble phases. In addition, an increased uptake in the lipid phase was observed in WCH17 cells transfected with PEMT2 expression vector.Conclusions:The amino acid transport processes may be responsible for the rapid accumulation of radiolabeled Met after the intravenous injection of tracers for the imaging of HCC. Upregulated MAT2A expression and impaired PEMT2 activities in HCC are associated with the specific metabolic pattern of L-[methyl-(11)C]-Met detected by PET.

