25243960
2014 Aug
Objective:To evaluate the efficacy of Fuzhenghuayu capsule for the prevention of oesophageal variceal bleeding in patients with liver cirrhosis.Methods:A multicentre randomized placebo-controlled trial was conducted. A total of 181 liver cirrhosis patients were enrolled in the study and randomly assigned to different groups according to the level of oesophageal variceal bleeding. Patients with light oesophageal varices received Fuzhenghuayu capsule or a placebo. Patients with medium to heavy oesophageal varices received either Fuzhenghuayu capsule alone, Fuzhenghuayu capsule plus propranolol, or propranolol plus a placebo. Patients with a history of oesophageal variceal bleeding received either Fuzhenghuayu capsule plus propranolol, propranolol alone, or a placebo. For all patients, the treatment lasted 2 years. The primary end point of the study was oesophageal variceal bleeding. The secondary end points were liver cancer, death by any cause, and liver transplantation. Risk of bleeding and survival were statistically assessed.Results:The median follow-up time was 50 months. The patients with small oesophageal varices who were treated with Fuzhenghuayu capsule showed a significantly higher cumulative probability of bleeding than their counterparts treated with the placebo (3.4% vs. 23.7%, x² = 4.829, P =0.028). The patients with medium to heavy oesophageal varices and no history of oesophageal variceal bleeding who were treated with Fuzhenghuayu capsule plus propranolol showed a remarkably higher cumulative probability of bleeding than their counterparts treated with propranolol alone (15.2% vs. 43.6%, x² =6.166, P =0.013). There were no significant differences between the patients treated with Fuzhenghuayu capsule alone and those treated with propranolol alone (P =0.147) or the patients treated with Fuzhenghuayu capsule plus propranolol and those treated with Fuzhenghuayu capsule alone (P =0.147). The patients with history of oesophageal variceal bleeding who were treated with Fuzhenghuayu capsule showed significantly higher cumulative probability of bleeding and median time of bleeding than their counterparts treated with propranolol alone (44.0% vs. 24.2% and 40.00 ± 17.92 months vs. 7.00 ± 2.35 months; x² = 4.433, P =0.035). There were no significant differences in the cumulative probability of liver cancer and survival among all of the groups.Conclusion:Fuzhenghuayu capsule can decrease the cumulative probability of bleeding in cirrhotic patients with light oesophageal varices. For cirrhosis patients with a history of oesophageal variceal bleeding, the combination of Fuzhenghuayu capsule plus propranolol can decrease the cumulative probability of bleeding with median or heavy varices.

