27504474
2016 Jul 20
Objective:To investigate dual-energy spectral CT in characterization of hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC) in patients with chronic liver disease.Methods:Dynamic computed tomography (CT) was performed in 3600 patients (2879 males; 721 females, mean age 50.9 ± 11.9 years) with working clinical diagnosis of liver cirrhosis for hepatocellular carcinoma screening and other clinical indications. The study was conducted over a period of 3 years. During dynamic CT scanning, spectral (monochromatic) and routine (polychromatic) CT acquisitions were obtained on a single tube, dual energy, 64 slice multi-detector CT scanner. Imaging findings were studied on routine CT. On the basis of routine CT findings, indeterminate lesions (lesions not showing characteristic hypervascularity followed by washout on dynamic routine CT scan) that were referred for biopsy or surgery were segregated. A retrospective blinded review of the lesions, acquired by the spectral CT acquisitions was done with the help of gem stone imaging (GSI) software to characterize these lesions. All the above lesions were analyzed qualitatively in the arterial phase for lesion conspicuity as well as quantitatively using the monochromatic data sets and nodule Iodine concentration on material density maps, respectively. This data was studied with respect to predictability of HCC using the spectral CT technique. Iodine density of the lesion, surrounding liver parenchyma, and lesion to liver parenchyma ratio (LLR) were derived and statistically analyzed. Histopathology of the lesion in question was treated as gold standard for analysis.Results:It was observed via statistical analysis that the value of iodine density of the lesion on material density sets of ≥29.5 mg/dl, enabled a discriminatory power of 86.5%, sensitivity of 90.5% with 95% confidence Interval (CI) (69.2-98.8%) and specificity of 81.2% with 95% Confidence Interval (54.4-95.9%) in predicting HCC. Qualitative assessment also showed higher lesion conspicuity with spectral CT image sets as compared to routine CT data.Conclusion:This study reveals that spectral imaging is an excellent qualitative as well as a quantitative tool for assessing and predicting hepatocellular carcinoma in cirrhotic patients.
CI, confidence interval; CT, computed tomography; DECT, dual energy computed tomography; Dual energy computed tomography; Functional imaging; GSI, gem stone imaging; HCC, hepatocellular carcinoma; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Iodine quantification; LLR, lesion to liver parenchyma ratio; MMD, monochromatic material density; Material density images; Spectral computed tomography.
