27795725
2016 Jul 20
Background:The most common cause of liver transplantation in Iran is hepatitis B positive cirrhosis, and it also one of the major and important causes of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Most cases with HCC follow a multistep sequence. Morphologic lesions during hepatocarcinogenesis include dysplastic lesions and small cancerous lesions (2 cm in diameter; early HCC). However, insufficient information is available on the incidence of HCC and its precursors in hepatitis B-related cirrhosis.Objectives:In this study, we determined the incidence of HCC and its precursors in hepatitis B-related cirrhosis in the largest liver transplant center in Iran.Methods:In a two-year study, all explanted livers of patients with hepatitis B virus (HBV)-positive cirrhosis were completely sectioned and examined. Each specimen was investigated grossly and microscopically to determine any abnormal nodule or cellular changes (at least 15 sections from each liver).Results:Among all explanted cirrhotic livers (103 livers) during the study period (2014 - 2015), 92 (89.3%) had dysplastic foci with large cell changes (LCC), 57 (55.3%) of which showed small cell changes (SCC) as well. Thirty-nine cases (37.9%) had low-grade dysplastic nodules (LGDN), 38 (36.9%) high-grade dysplastic nodules (HGDN), 19 (18.4%) were early hepatocellular carcinoma (eHCC), and 21 (20.4%) were hepatocellular carcinoma more than 2 cm. All the cases with eHCC and HCC of more than 2 cm also had SCC, LCC, HGDN, and LGDN. Thirteen cases of eHCC were accompanied with HCCs more than 2 cm, and 6 cases of eHCC did not show any HCC (larger than 2 cm).Conclusions:SCC, LGDN, and HGDN are common associated findings and precursors of HCC in livers infected with hepatitis B. A strict follow-up and a precise and thorough sampling of livers with SCC and any abnormal dysplastic nodules (DNs), especially those larger than 1 cm, are highly recommended because these DNs are highly associated with malignancy.
Cirrhosis; Hepatitis B; Hepatocellular Carcinoma; Precursors.
