30282074
2019
Background/aims:The recently proposed Munich-transarterial chemoembolisation-score (M-TACE) was tailored to suit hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC) patients evaluated for TACE. M-TACE outperformed the established HCC-staging-systems and successfully passed external validation. Modifications of staging-systems through the rearrangement of stages or by adding prognostic factors are methods of improving prognostic power. M-TACEs performance compared to scores modified this way should be tested.Methods:Seven well-known HCC staging-systems (including Cancer of the Liver Italian Program-score [CLIP] and Barcelona Clinic liver cancer [BCLC]) and 2 TACE-specific scores (Selection for Transarterial Chemoembolisation Treatment [STATE] and Hepatoma Arterial embolisation Prognostic [HAP]) were rearranged in a cohort of 186 TACE-patients through score-point-analysis and subsequent linking of non-significant adjacent score-points. Additionally, a new score was constructed by combining the top established staging-system in TACE patients (CLIP-TACE) and the prognostic parameter with the highest hazard ratio for death in the TACE-cohort [C-reactive protein (CRP)]. Additionally, the TACE-tailored-scores were applied to an external TACE-cohort (n = 71). -Results: Rearrangement resulted in optimal stratification and monotonicity. CLIP-TACE demonstrated the best prognostic capability of all rearranged scores (c-index 0.668, AIC 1294) and the addition of CRP yielded further prognostic improvement (c-index 0.680, AIC 1289). However, superiority over M-TACE could not be achieved by any of the new scores in the internal and external cohort.Conclusion:M-TACE outperforms TACE-tailored modifications of all relevant HCC-staging-systems. Prospective validation of M-TACE to promote its role as the preferred staging-system for TACE-patients is therefore justified.
Hepatoma arterial embolisation prognostic; Barcelona clinic liver cancer; Cancer of the liver Italian programme-score; Hepatocellular carcinoma staging systems; Munich-transarterial chemoembolisation-score; Selection for transarterial chemoembolisation treatment.
