30878663
2019
Background and aims:Non-dividing hepatocytes in end-stage liver disease indicates permanent growth arrest similar to senescence. Identifying senescence in vivo is often challenging and mechanisms inhibiting senescence are poorly understood. In lower organisms mitochondrial unfolded protein response (UPRMT) helps in increasing longevity; however, its role in senescence and liver disease is poorly understood. Aim of this study was to identify hepatocyte senescence and the role of UPRMT in cryptogenic cirrhosis.Methods:Doxorubicin was used to induce senescence in non-neoplastic hepatocytes (PH5CH8) and hepatoma cells (HepG2 and Huh7). Senescence-associated markers and unfolded protein response was evaluated by fluorescence microscopy, immunoblotting and gene expression. Explants/biopsies from normal, fibrosis, compensated and decompensated cirrhosis without any known etiology were examined for presence of senescence and UPRMT by immunohistochemistry and gene expression.Results:Accumulation of senescent hepatocytes in cryptogenic cirrhosis was associated with reduced proliferation, increased expression of γH2AX and p21, together with loss of LaminB1. Dysfunctional mitochondria and compromised UPRMT were key features of senescent hepatocytes both in vitro and also in decompensated cirrhosis. Intriguingly, compensated cirrhotic liver mounted strong UPRMT, with high levels of mitochondrial protease, CLPP. Overexpression of CLPP inhibited senescence in vitro, by reducing mitochondrial ROS and altering oxygen consumption.Conclusions:Our results implicate a role of hepatocyte senescence in cryptogenic cirrhosis together with a crucial role of UPRMT in preventing hepatocyte senescence. A compromised UPRMT may shift the fate of cirrhotic liver toward decompensation by exaggerating hepatocyte senescence. Restoring CLPP levels at least in cell culture appears as a promising strategy in mitohormesis, thereby, preventing senescence and possibly improving hepatocyte function.
Cryptogenic Liver Cirrhosis; Mitochondrial Respiration; Mitochondrial Unfolded Protein Response; Oxidative Stress.
