30894002
Winter 2019
Background:Stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) is used to treat localized tumor lesions and consists of applying high doses of radiation to a small number of fractions using specially equipped linear accelerators, modern immobilization devices, and imaging methods, which are considered special, advanced techniques in modern day radiotherapy. SBRT is a very well tolerated, non-invasive, short-term treatment that does not require hospitalization or any complicated preparation. Compared to standard radiotherapy techniques, SBRT allows, due to its precision, significantly higher doses to be applied to the target with less damage to surrounding healthy tissues. If dose constraints are not exceeded, the risk of damage to tissues and organs around the irradiated volume is reduced to minimum. The principle of SBRT is the application of ablative doses of radiation that cause necrosis of the irradiated tissue.Purpose:The aim of this review is to provide a basic overview of SBRT indications, radiation doses used, and potential side effects. It is not intended to be a detailed description of treatment itself (such as discussion of patient fixation systems, management of respiratory movements, or image guided strategies of treatment). This review also discusses rarer indications for SBRT, such as pancreatic carcinoma or hepatocellular carcinoma.Conclusion:Advances in image navigation, radiation planning, and dose application have enabled successful introduction of SBRT as a treatment regimen for many primary tumors and oligometastatic disease. If surgery is not possible or the patient refuses surgery, it is always reasonable to consider SBRT. SBRT has curative potential for the treatment of primary lung or prostate tumors. High-dose irradiation of oligometastases of various primary tumors can lead to long-term survival without disease symptoms, delay administration of toxic systemic therapies, and improve the quality of life of oncological patients. Key words radiotherapy - stereotactic body radiotherapy - review - ablative radiotherapy - lung cancer - prostate cancer - oligometastatic disease This work was supported in part by the Ministry of Health, Czech Republic - Conceptual Development of Research Organization (MMCI 00209805). The results of this research have been acquired within CEITEC 2020 (LQ1601) project with the financial contribution made by the Minis-try of Education, Youths and Sports of the Czech Republic within special support paid from the National Programme for Sustainability II funds. The authors declare they have no potential conflicts of interest concerning drugs, products, orservices used in the study.The Editorial Board declares that the manuscript met the ICMJE recommendation for biomedical papers. Submitted: 30. 10. 2018 Accepted: 4. 11. 2018.
Czech Republic - Conceptual Development of Research Organization (MMCI 00209805). The results of this research have been acquired within CEITEC 2020 (LQ1601) project with the financial contribution made by the Minis­try of Education; Youths and Sports of the Czech Republic within special support paid from the National Programme for Sustainability II funds.The authors declare they have no potential conflicts of interest concerning drugs; orservices used in the study.The Editorial Board declares that the manuscript met the ICMJE recommendation for biomedical papers.Submitted
