31185156
2019
Analysis of the human NK (natural killers) cells and their functionally different populations in connection to tumor processes accompanied with viral infections is presented. Receptor lectins (non-immunoglobulin proteins and their complexes recognizing polysaccharides, glycoconjugates and glycopattern-containing molecules) play important role in regulation of innate immunity. Communicative diversity of NK-cell populations (in which lectins cofunction to other receptors) is directed against tumors and viruses. Effectiveness and selectivity of action of NK cell populations can be increased in cooperation together with adaptive immunity. Evaluations of occurrence, redistribution (also under influence of cytokines) and contribution of NK-populations (depending on lectin receptors recognition coupled to multifunctions of receptors) in respect of increasing antitumor and antiviral immune responces are given. The data indicate extended prospects of lectin receptors (coupled to other type receptors) containing NK populations of the network compartment of innate immunity upon realization of different variants of organism protection in cooperation with cellular and humoral immunity. Such NK populations are the basis for further intercellular interactions. Innate immunity Cross-Talk, involving the leader NK cell populations acting according to humoral immunity mechanisms, acts on duty regime (importance for therapy of chronic pathology) that results in providing optimal combined antitumor and antiviral cytokine and cytotoxic responses according to the principle of action as «network-in-network». The influence network of lectin, Ig-like, cytotoxic, other regulator NK populations (also throuph redistribution of production of cytokines by immunocompetent cells) is perspective for forming early prolongated antitumor and antiviral processes of different types in organism. It is of importance to consider CD diversity of receptor repertuar of lectin, Ig-like and other NK populations revealing different ontogenesis as well as to seach patient key NK-populations to select and construct personally (or for contingents in cases of epidemiological significance) optimal therapeutic/prophylactic NK populations (like variants of CAR-T). Aforementioned data indicate perspectiveness of NK cell populations in development of new antitumor/antiviral effective and selective vaccine strategies, preparations and regimes of their applications. Probiotic lectins reveal features of perspective ligands cofunctioning to network of NK cell populations.
Burkitt lymphoma; C-type lectins (CLR); DNA damage response (DDR); Epstein-Barr virus (EBV); NK cells; acute leukemiya; adults; antitumor strategies; antiviral strategies; children; cytokines; cytomegalovirus (CMV); dendritic cells (DC); dysbiosis; hepatitis C virus (HCV); hepatocellular carcinomas (HCC); human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1); innate immunity; intercellular communications; killer T-lymphocytes; macrophages; monocytes; mucosal immunity; probiotic lectins; sarcomas; В cell lymphomas.
