31439270
2020 Summer
Introduction:Radiation planning approaches for liver radiation often do not consider the regional variation that can exist in liver function. This study dosimetrically compares functional liver image-guided hepatic therapy (FLIGHT) to standard stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) plans. In the FLIGHT plans, functional data from hepatobiliary iminodiacetic acid (HIDA) single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) scans serve as a road map to guide beam arrangement. While meeting the same target volume coverage, plans are optimized to reduce dose to high-functioning liver.Materials and methods:The study included 10 patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) with baseline HIDA SPECT imaging. Standard SBRT plans which did not systematically incorporate these scans had previously been completed on all 10 plans. Retrospectively, FLIGHT plans were created based on the use of contours of relative liver function from the HIDA SPECT as avoidance structures. Resulting dose to each relative functional liver structure was examined and compared qualitatively and using Wilcoxin rank-sum tests. Target coverage, doses to organs at risk (OARs), conformity index (CI), and gradient index (GI) were also evaluated.Results:While maintaining the same target coverage, FLIGHT plans reduced the mean dose to the high functioning liver by a median of 3.0 Gy (range 0.7 to 4.6 Gy), which represented a 31.4% mean reduction compared to standard planning. FLIGHT plans reduced the volume of high functioning liver receiving 15 Gy by a mean of 59.3 cc (range 7 to 170 cc), for a mean reduction of 41.9%. The mean dose to areas of liver function defined by 25% to 100% and 50% to 100% maximum was reduced with FLIGHT from 10.5 Gy to 8.5 Gy and from 10.5 Gy to 7.5 Gy, respectively (p Conclusion:FLIGHT SBRT allows for field design and plan optimization individualized to a patient's baseline regional liver function to maximize hepatic functional reserve. This personalized approach is achieved without compromising target coverage or OAR sparing.
Hepatocellular carcinoma; Liver function; Stereotactic body radiation therapy.
