31516260
Jul-Aug 2019
Background:Liver failure (LF) is a serious complication of transarterial chemoembolization (TACE) in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). This could be influenced by the hemodynamic and functional status of the underlying cirrhotic liver. We evaluated baseline hepatic venous pressure gradient (HVPG) and indocyanine green (ICG) clearance as predictive factors for the development of LF in patients with liver cirrhosis undergoing TACE for HCC.Methods:Forty-two patients with cirrhosis and HCC, referred for TACE, were clinically evaluated including the assessment of Child Turcotte Pugh score (CTP), Model for End-Stage Liver Disease (MELD), HVPG measurement, and ICG retention test. Predictors of development of hepatic failure after TACE were determined.Results:In our study population, the mean age of the patients was 58 years, with mean CTP of 6.60 ± 1.149 and mean MELD score of 9.57 ± 2.923. The mean HVPG and ICG retention at 15 min was 13.57 ± 4.64 mmHg and 21.571 ± 12.434, respectively. Post-TACE Liver Failure (PTLF within 1 month after TACE) developed in 23.80% patients, whereas 76.19% patients did not have PTLF. The statistically significant preprocedure variables that might predict hepatic failure after TACE using univariate analysis were found to be high CTP, MELD score, ICG retention, HVPG, serum bilirubin, serum creatinine, alfa-fetoprotein levels, large tumor size, and low baseline serum albumin. On multivariate analysis, ICG was an independent factor predictive of hepatic failure after TACE.Conclusion:Pretreatment evaluation of routine liver function is of fundamental importance before TACE. Baseline ICG retention test (ICG-R15) is a marker indicating the state of liver function in patients undergoing TACE and is an independent predictor for PTLF. Our study concludes that with a cutoff of 25, ICG-R15 has 92.9% accuracy, 90% sensitivity, and 87.5% specificity to predict hepatic failure after TACE.
BCLC, Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer; HCC, Hepatocellular Carcinoma; HVPG; HVPG, Hepatic Venous Pressure Gradient; ICG clearance test; ICG, Indocyanine green; IRB, Institutional Review Board; LF, Liver Failure; MELD, Model for End-Stage Liver Disease; PHT, Portal Hypertension; PTLF, Post-TACE liver failure; RFA, Radiofrequency Ablation; ROC, Receiver operating characteristic curve; TACE; TACE, Transarterial chemoembolization.
