31695249
Sep-Oct 2019
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) incidence and mortality have shown an unfavorable upward trend over the last two decades, especially in developed countries. More than one-sixth of the patients have advanced HCC at presentation. Systemic therapy remains the treatment of choice for these patients. Current options include tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) and immunotherapy. This review aims to summarize current knowledge on the rapidly evolving field of systemic therapy with several newly approved medications over the last year. Sorafenib remains one of the first-line treatment choices for patients with hepatitis C etiology, intermediate to advanced HCC stage, and Child-Pugh class A. Lenvatinib is the other first-line drug that might have better efficacy in non-hepatitis C etiologies and advanced HCC without portal vein thrombosis. Patients intolerant to first-line therapy might benefit from immunotherapy with nivolumab or pembrolizumab. In those who fail first-line therapy, the choice should be based on the side effects related to previous treatment, performance status, and underlying liver dysfunction. Ongoing studies are investigating immunotherapy alone or immunotherapy in combination with TKIs as first-line therapy. Several second-line options for combination systemic therapy and systemic plus local-regional treatment are under investigation. Future studies should focus on identifying reliable biomarkers to predict response to therapy and to better stratify patients at high risk for progression. Multidisciplinary approach is pivotal for successful outcomes in patients with advanced HCC.
AFP, alpha-fetoprotein; ATP, adenosine triphosphate; BCLC, Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer; CI, confidence interval; CTLA-4, cytotoxic T lymphocyte-associated antigen-4; CTP, Child-Turcotte-Pugh; ECOG, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group; EGFR, epidermal growth factor receptor; FDA, Food and Drug Administration; FGFR, fibroblast growth factor receptor; HBV, hepatitis B virus; HCC; HCC, hepatocellular carcinoma; HCV, hepatitis C virus; HR, hazard ratio; LRT, local-regional therapy; LT, liver transplantation; OS, overall survival; PD-1, programmed cell death-1; PDGFR, platelet-derived growth factor receptor; PFS, progression-free survival; RCT, randomized controlled trial; RTK, receptor tyrosine kinase; TACE, transarterial chemoembolization; TEAE, treatment-emergent adverse effect; TKI, tyrosine kinase inhibitor; TTP, time to progression; VEGFR, vascular endothelial growth factor receptor; combination therapy; immunotherapy; irAE, immune-related adverse events; systemic therapy.
