31842572
Fall 2019
Introduction:Multidisciplinary teams (MDTs) have become a standard part of treating oncological patients. Based on the available data, they have lead to significantly higher survival rates in the treatment of colorectal cancer (CRC). Reported negatives include potentially longer times between diagnoses and the start of appropriate treatment, and the lack of quality controls over the MTDs actions. This report aims to assess the benefits of MDTs using our own data set for 2017.Methods:Year 2010 saw the institution of an MDT at the Central Military University Hospital in Prague, with the obligation to refer CRC patients to the MDT before the start of treatment. Having standardized the registration, we have implemented a simple procedure to track the quality of our MDTs involvement and its patient benefits: number of patients, number of referrals with proposed diagnostic and therapeutic procedure, frequency and reason of changes to original strategies, and the frequency of variations from the MDTs conclusions.Results:405 CRC patients were referred to the MDT in 2017; we have found 499 referrals in this group. The data set was formed predominantly by men (61%), with the mean age of 63 (21-91), and the median age of 64.5 years. Surgical treatment was the most commonly proposed procedure (59%), followed by systemic treatment or, as the case may be, radiotherapy. In 24% of the cases, the conclusion did not match the originally proposed procedure. The decision not to go through with the proposed surgical treatment was the most common change (66 %). We have found a difference in the quality of referral in patients examined specifically by the referring doctor, as opposed to patients whose medical records have just been sent in. We have found therapeutic variation in the MTDs conclusions in less than 5% of patients.Conclusion:Having analyzed our data for CRC patients referred to the MDT in 2017, we have found out that in 24% of the patients, the MDT referral leads to a change in the originally proposed diagnostic and therapeutic procedure. Consensus among the MDTs members on the CRC patients treatment guarantees an optimum procedure. What is fundamental is that the referring doctor knows the patient. Constant tracking of the MDTs outputs forms a condition for sustaining the quality of its work and a base for assessing its benefits to the patients.
multidisciplinary team; colorectal cancer; colorectal liver metastases.
