29957158
2020 Nov
Objectives:Hepatic resection and liver transplant are regarded as 2 potentially curative treatments for hepatocellular carcinoma. Here, we compared both options in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma secondary to cirrhosis seen at a single center over 12 years.Materials and methods:We evaluated early complications and survival of patients with hepatocellular carcinoma treated with liver transplant (57 patients) or hepatic resection (36 patients) at our center between 1998 and 2010.Results:The 34-month mean follow-up period was similar for both treatment groups. The liver transplant group had a longer hospital stay than the hepatic resection group (P ⟨ .001). Patients with Child-Turcotte-Pugh A stage were treated by hepatic resection more than by liver transplant (P ⟨ .001),with Child-Turcotte-Pugh B stage patients treated by liver transplant more than by hepatic resection (P = .03). All patients with Child-Turcotte-Pugh C stage had liver transplant. Both treatment groups had similar postoperative complications and early postoperative mortality rates, but liver transplant resulted in longer overall (P = .001) and higher event-free (P = .001) survival than hepatic resection. Among the liver transplant group, 57.8% of patients met the Milan criteria. Patients who met Milan criteria were treated by liver transplant statistically more than hepatic resection, and these patients had longer overall survival (P = .01) and higher event-free survival (P ⟨ .001) than patients who had hepatic resection. Hepatocellular carcinoma recurrence rates were higher after hepatic resection (P = .232).Conclusions:In patients with hepatocellular carcinoma, hospital stay was longer after liver transplant, but morbidity and mortality rates for liver transplant versus hepatic resection were similar. However, overall and event-free survival rates were better after liver transplant than after hepatic resection. These results suggest that liver transplant should be considered as the primary treatment option for patients with hepatocellular carcinoma secondary to cirrhosis.

