32361828
2020 Nov
Purpose:The aim of this study was to evaluate the nutrition and metabolism status alteration during immunotherapy in advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) patients.Methods:Patients with advanced HCC who participated in the clinical trials of single-agent anti-PD-1 immunotherapy or sorafenib were retrospectively included. We analyzed self-comparison of the nutritional and metabolic indices of patients in the anti-PD-1 and sorafenib treatment group. We conducted mutual-comparison of the mentioned indices between the disease progression group and disease control group among anti-PD-1 treatment patients. We further analyzed those indices with statistical differences by partial correlation and survival analysis.Results:Both self-comparison before and after treatment in the anti-PD-1 group and mutual-comparison of disease progression and the control group showed significant differences in multiple indices, but we did not observe significant differences in the sorafenib group. Strikingly, albumin (ALB)/prognostic nutritional index (PNI, calculated by serum albumin and lymphocyte count) decreased distinctly in the immunotherapy disease progression group patients. However, changes in ALB/PNI were not significant in disease progression patients from the sorafenib group or in the disease control patients with immunotherapy. Partial correlation analysis suggested that ALB and PNI were positively correlated with the efficacy of immunotherapy. Furthermore, survival analysis showed that the median progression-free survival and median overall survival of patients in the ALB/PNI decreased group were significantly shorter than those of patients from the ALB/PNI increased group.Conclusion:Anti-PD-1 immunotherapy might alter the nutritional and metabolic status in advanced HCC patients. We also should pay attention to the nutritional and metabolic status of patients when drug resistance is detected.
Albumin; Anti-PD-1 immunotherapy; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Nutrition and metabolism; Prognostic nutritional index.
