32500195
2020 Nov
Objectives:To determine imaging hallmarks for distinguishing intrahepatic mass-forming biliary carcinomas (IMBCs) from hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and to validate their diagnostic ability using Bayesian statistics.Methods:Study 1 retrospectively identified clinical and imaging hallmarks that distinguish IMBCs (n = 41) from HCC (n = 247) using computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Study 2 retrospectively assessed the diagnostic ability of these hallmarks to distinguish IMBCs (n = 37) from HCC (n = 111) using Bayesian statistics with images obtained from a different institution. We also assessed the diagnostic ability of the hallmarks in the patient subgroup with high diagnostic confidence (≥ 80% of post-test probability). Two radiologists independently evaluated the imaging findings in studies 1 and 2.Results:In study 1, arterial phase peritumoral parenchymal enhancement on CT/MRI, delayed enhancement on CT/MRI, diffusion-weighted imaging peripheral hyperintensity, and bile duct dilatation were hallmarks indicating IMBCs, whereas chronic liver disease, non-rim arterial phase hyperenhancement on CT/MRI, enhancing capsule on CT/MRI, and opposed-phase signal drop were hallmarks indicating HCC (p = 0.001-0.04). In study 2, Bayesian statistics-based post-test probability combining all hallmark features had a diagnostic accuracy of 89.2% (132/148) in distinguishing IMBCs from HCC for both readers. In the high diagnostic confidence subgroup (n = 120 and n = 124 for readers 1 and 2, respectively), the accuracy improved (95.0% (114/120) and 93.5% (116/124) for readers 1 and 2, respectively).Conclusions:Combined interpretation of CT and MRI to identify hallmark features is useful in discriminating IMBCs from HCCs. High post-test probability by Bayesian statistics allows for a more reliable non-invasive diagnosis.Key points:• Combined interpretation of CT and MRI to identify hallmark features was useful in discriminating intrahepatic mass-forming biliary carcinomas from hepatocellular carcinoma. • Bayesian method-based post-test probability combining all hallmark features determined in study 1 showed high (> 90%) sensitivity and specificity for distinguishing intrahepatic mass-forming biliary carcinomas from hepatocellular carcinoma. • If the post-test probability or the confidence was ≥ 80% when combining the imaging features of CT and MRI, the high specificity of > 95% was achieved without any loss of sensitivity to distinguish hepatocellular carcinoma from intrahepatic mass-forming biliary carcinomas.
Bayesian method; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma; Magnetic resonance imaging; Multidetector computed tomography.
