32763490
2020 Nov 30
Background:Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most common malignancies and inflicts high mortality worldwide. The effect of tumor microenvironment components on HCC oncogenesis remains unknown. In particular, the nonleukocyte portion of the stromal fraction (SF) is poorly understood.Methods:We comprehensively evaluated the proportional cell counts and gene expression data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) to examine the contributions of cell components to the tumor microenvironment. Single-cell sequencing data from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) were also analyzed to verify the association between the nonleukocyte SF and genes. We classified HCC using a hierarchical clustering method based on diversity of nonleukocyte SF-related gene expression among different components, and we used an appropriate GEO dataset to verify the clusters with a support vector machine (SVM) model. The prognosis of subtypes and their relationship with tumor microenvironmental cell proportions, clinicopathogenesis factors, and other indicators were evaluated.Results:Based on linear regression, 711 genes related to nonleukocyte SF were selected from the TCGA dataset. We classified HCC into three subtypes using genes related to the nonleukocyte SF. Additionally, the GEO single-cell sequencing data confirmed the relationship between genes and the nonleukocyte SF. The tumor microenvironment of Type 2 contained the most significant mutually reinforcing interaction between the nonleukocyte SF and tumor cells. Meanwhile, Type 2 patients had the poorest prognosis and the most severe tumor-node-metastasis (TNM) stages, histological grades, etc. The analysis based on the GEO dataset verified the classification results with an SVM model. Type 2 was associated with worse clinicopathological characteristics, including tumor grading and staging, than the other types. In addition, the pathway analysis revealed that signals related to the SF and cell proliferation were significantly enhanced in Type 2 compared to the other group, which consisted of Types 1 and 3.Conclusion:The nonleukocyte SF in the tumor microenvironment contributed greatly to HCC oncogenesis. We can use these HCC classification criteria to stratify patients into subtypes for personalized treatment.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC); Nonleukocyte stromal fraction.
