32901343
2020 Nov
Nitidine chloride (NC) was recently reported to exhibit a wide range of pharmacological properties for several diseases, including cancer. Here we report for the first time that NC is a potential therapeutic agent for mucoepidermoid carcinoma (MEC) occurring in the head and neck because it suppresses X chromosome-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein (XIAP) in human MEC in vitro and in vivo. The antitumor effects of NC were evaluated by trypan blue exclusion assay, western blotting, live/dead assay, 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) staining, human apoptosis antibody array, immunofluorescence staining, immunohistochemistry, small interfering RNA assay, transient transfection of XIAP overexpression vector, terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) assay, and histopathological examination of organs. NC inhibited cell viability and induced caspase-dependent apoptosis in vitro. A human apoptosis antibody array assay showed that XIAP is suppressed by NC treatment. XIAP was overexpressed in oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) tissues that arose from the head and neck, and high XIAP expression was correlated with poor prognosis in OSCC patients. XIAP depletion significantly increased apoptosis, and ectopic XIAP overexpression attenuated the apoptosis induced by NC treatment. NC suppressed tumor growth in vivo at a dosage of 5 mg/kg/day. The number of TUNEL-positive cells increased and the protein expression of XIAP was consistently downregulated in NC-treated tumor tissues. In addition, NC caused no histopathological changes in the liver or kidney. These findings provide new insights into the mechanism of action underlying the anticancer effects of NC and demonstrate that NC is a promising therapeutic agent for the treatment of human MEC of the head and neck. KEY MESSAGES: • Nitidine chloride induces caspase-dependent apoptosis in MEC of the head and neck. • High XIAP expression correlates with poor prognosis of OSCC patients. • Nitidine chloride suppresses tumor growth in vivo without any systemic toxicities. • Targeting XIAP is a novel chemotherapeutic strategy for MEC of the head and neck.
Apoptosis; Mucoepidermoid carcinoma of salivary gland; Nitidine chloride; X chromosome-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein.
