32952618
2020 Nov
The present study reports on the experience at Jiangxi Provincial People's Hospital (Nanchang, China) with liver transplantation in adults using pediatric donor livers, including indications, technique and results. A total of three cases of liver transplantation performed between April 2008 and May 2016 were retrospectively reviewed. Liver procurement and trimming, recipient selection, surgical tips, prevention and treatment of small-for-size syndrome, selection of immunosuppressive regimens, prevention and treatment of vascular complications and anticoagulant therapy were discussed. The three pediatric donors were 8, 8 and 10 years old. The three recipients were confirmed to have primary liver cancer. In recipient 1 (female; age, 39 years), jaundice persisted in the recipient after the liver transplantation. A reduced dose of FK506 was then given to gradually decrease the total bilirubin level to the normal range. Recipient 1 recovered and was discharged from hospital; however, the patient died of liver cancer recurrence and bone metastasis 6 years post-transplantation. In recipient 2 (male; age, 56 years), the recipient experienced sudden abdominal distension on postoperative day 7. The patient's clotting time was prolonged and the transaminase level was sharply increased, peaking on day 9. The patient was suspected of having small-for-size syndrome and was treated symptomatically. The patient experienced a significant improvement in symptoms on postoperative day 13 and regular postoperative follow-ups were performed until now and the patient is now in remission. In recipient 3 (male; age, 48 years), the recipient recovered well and the liver function returned to normal on postoperative day 3. The patient was discharged from hospital and has been in remission thus far. Adult liver transplantations from pediatric donors are feasible treatments. Systematic donor and recipient assessments, sound surgical skills and optimal postoperative treatments are essential for success in the transplantation of livers from pediatric donors into adult recipients. Considering the condition of the donor liver, the selection of recipients and appropriate surgical methods are particularly important in these cases.
liver transplantation; organ donation; pediatric liver donors; postoperative complications.
