32973954
2020 Nov
Differentiated thyroid cancer (DTC) is a common type of cancer among women with an increasing worldwide incidence rate. However, there are no specific and sensitive molecular biomarkers for DTC diagnosis or prognosis. Angiopoietin-like protein 1 (ANGPTL1) may be a novel tumor suppressor in lung, breast, colorectal and hepatocellular carcinoma. However, little is known about the influence of ANGPTL1 on the malignant properties of thyroid cancer cells or DTC recurrence in patients. Thus, the present study aimed to investigate the effects of ANGPTL1 on thyroid cancer malignancy or recurrence. The present study examined the mRNA levels of ANGPTL1 in thyroid cancer and paracancerous tissues using RNA sequencing data from The Cancer Genome Atlas. The present study also determined the effects of ANGPTL1 on thyroid cancer cell proliferation using the Cell Counting Kit-8 assay. Associations were identified among ANGPTL1 expression levels and thyroid cancer proliferation, migration and metastasis using The Cancer Genome Atlas data set and by Gene Set Enrichment Analysis. The expression of ANGPTL1 in patients with DTC and without recurrence was compared in order to assess its potential as a prognostic biomarker for DTC. In addition, ANGPTL1 concentrations in the serum of patients with DTC and individuals with benign thyroid nodules were compared to evaluate the sensitivity and specificity of ANGPTL1 as a predictive biomarker for DTC. The results of the present study demonstrated that ANGPTL1 expression levels were lower in thyroid cancer compared with those in adjacent normal thyroid tissues. ANGPTL1 expression was observed to decrease with thyroid cancer progression. In addition, ANGPTL1 was demonstrated to inhibit thyroid cancer cell proliferation, migration and invasion and ANGPTL1 expression levels were reduced in patients with DTC with recurrence compared with those in patients with non-recurrent DTC. Additionally, serum concentrations of ANGPTL1 in patients with DTC were decreased compared with those in individuals with benign thyroid nodules. In conclusion, ANGPTL1 may be a novel predictive biomarker for DTC diagnosis and recurrence in patients with DTC.
angiopoietin-like 1; differentiated thyroid carcinoma; proliferation; recurrence.
