33139607
2020 Nov 1
Diet and lifestyle interventions are the recommended treatment for patients with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), with the aim of achieving a 7-10% weight loss. Several dietary patterns have been suggested for this purpose, however, to date, the best one is represented by the Mediterranean diet (MD) as it is rich in macro- and micro- nutrients known for their effectiveness in health-promotion and cardio-vascular disease prevention. Moreover, MD is characterized by the inclusion of nuts. These foods have shown potential benefits in health-promotion as they are rich in fibers, which have lipid-lowering effects, rich in mono- and poly-unsaturated fatty acids, which help reduce insulin-resistance and serum cholesterol, and contain anti-oxidants which reduce oxidative stress and inflammation. Additionally, nuts are associated with a better control, or reduction, of Body Mass Index (BMI). All these effects are useful targets to achieve in NAFLD, so that nuts have been proposed as a suitable dietary treatment supplement for weight and metabolic control in these patients. In recent years, health authorities raised an alert on nuts consumption as these may be at high risk of aflatoxin (AF) contamination, for which controls and legislations are different among countries. AF is a well-known cancerogenic agent and a recognized risk factor for hepatocellular carcinoma. Patients with NAFLD have an overall, inherent sevenfold increased risk of developing hepatocellular carcinoma as compared with the general population. In this context, one could argue that recommending the inclusion of nuts in the diet of NAFLD patients has to be balanced with the risk of potential chronic exposure to AF, and every effort should be pursued to assure the safety of these nutrients. In this review, we aim to summarize the benefits of nuts consumption, the evidence for AF contamination of nuts and the consequent potential risks in patients with NAFLD.
aflatoxin; hepatocellular carcinoma; liver disease; peanuts; steatohepatitis; steatosis.
