33148204
2020 Nov 4
Background:Heterogeneity of metastatic renal cell carcinoma (RCC) constraints accurate prognosis prediction of the tumor. We therefore aimed at developing a novel nomogram for accurate prediction of overall survival (OS) of patients with metastatic RCC.Methods:We extracted 2010 to 2016 data for metastatic RCC patients in the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) database, and randomly stratified them equally into training and validation sets. Prognostic factors for OS were analyzed using Cox regression models, and thereafter integrated into a 1, 3 and 5-year OS predictive nomogram. The nomogram was validated using the training and validation sets. The performance of this model was evaluated by the Harrell's concordance index (C-index), calibration curve, integrated discrimination improvement (IDI), category-free net reclassification improvement (NRI), index of prediction accuracy (IPA), and decision curve analysis (DCA).Results:Overall, 2315 metastatic RCC patients in the SEER database who fulfilled our inclusion criteria were utilized in constructing a nomogram for predicting OS of newly diagnosed metastatic RCC patients. The nomogram incorporated eight clinical factors: Fuhrman grade, lymph node status, sarcomatoid feature, cancer-directed surgery and bone, brain, liver, and lung metastases, all significantly associated with OS. The model was superior to the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) staging system (7th edition) both in training (C-indices, 0.701 vs. 0.612, P < 0.001) and validation sets (C-indices, 0.676 vs. 0.600, P < 0.001). The calibration plots of the nomogram corresponded well between predicted and observed values. NRI, IDI, and IPA further validated the superior predictive capability of the nomogram relative to the AJCC staging system. The DCA plots revealed reliable clinical application of our model in prognosis prediction of metastatic RCC patients.Conclusions:We developed and validated an accurate nomogram for individual OS prediction of metastatic RCC patients. This nomogram can be applied in design of clinical trials, patient counseling, and rationalizing therapeutic modalities.
Metastatic renal cell carcinoma; Nomogram; Overall survival; Prognosis; SEER.
