33153426
2020 Nov 5.</span
Cancer is considered as one of the most common leading causes of death worldwide. In developed countries, the lifestyles including poor diet, smoking, reproductive changes and physical inactivity are known to increase the susceptibility to cancer diseases. Moreover, the exposure to ionizing radiation, carcinomas chemicals, certain metals and some other specific substances even at low concentrations increase the risk to cancer diseases. Cancer progression is often associated with irregularities in cell cycle and these alterations induced mainly as a result of oxidative stress and generation of the reactive oxygen species (ROS). Colorectal cancer (CRC), hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and breast cancer are the most common and extensively studied types of cancers in modernized countries. The tumor suppressor genes are encoded by specific proteins. These proteins are required to regulate expression of these genes and involve in apoptosis, angiogenesis and genome maintenance. Therefore, the alterations in these proteins play role in cancers incidence and progression. Electrophoresis is standard technique used for separating, identifying and quantifying of different proteins according to their physical properties. Therefore, this article aimed to reveal role of this technique to analyze stoichiometry of a specific protein subunits in cancer diagnosis at early stage. Furthermore, the chemotherapeutic drugs that currently used in cancer treatment have shown adverse effects such as nephrotoxicity, cardiotoxicity and peripheral neuropathies in addition to sexual problems. Severity of these effects varies from person to person and according to type of the treatment. For this reason, the article shows role of the recent study that directed to enhance efficiency of the plant extracts like Moringa oleifera leaves extract by incorporating nanoparticles (silver (Ag-NPs) or gold Au-NPs) nanoparticles) and hence to investigate its efficiency against various cancers. The article concluded that electrophoresis might be added as an identification technique to reveal the qualitative and quantitative mutations induced as a result of cancer progression. Also, it might be able to show the differences induced in the native protein and isoenzymes patterns due to cancer treatment by mean of green nanotechnology as compared to traditional chemotherapy.
Cancer; chemotherapy; electrophoresis; green nanotechnology; oncogenes; oxidative stress; tumor biomarkers.
