33209037
2020 Nov 12
Purpose:Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most commonly diagnosed digestive cancers and the fourth leading cause of death worldwide. Long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) with key roles in HCC development and progression have emerged and are used in the diagnosis and prognostic prediction of HCC. The lncRNA gradually increased during hepatocarcinogenesis (GIHCG) is a novel lncRNA with aberrant expression in many tumors, but its prognostic value and biological role in HCC have not been fully studied. Thus, the aim of this study was to explore the expression pattern and potential biological role of GIHCG in HCC.Patients and methods:The expression pattern of GIHCG in HCC was analyzed in our HCC cohort and validated in The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database. To assess the prognostic value of GIHCG, survival analyses and Cox regression analyses were carried out in two HCC cohorts. Functional enrichment analysis was used to predict the gene sets and pathways related to aberrant GIHCG expression. Furthermore, the relationship between GIHCG expression and immune infiltration in HCC was analyzed.Results:GIHCG was highly expressed in HCC tissues compared with normal liver tissues. In addition, high GIHCG expression was significantly correlated with inferior clinicopathological characteristics and shorter survival times. High GIHCG expression was an independent prognostic factor for overall survival and disease-free survival in the HCC cohort in our center and in the TCGA-LIHC cohort. Hallmark terms such as "G2M checkpoint", "MYC targets" and "DNA repair" were enriched in the GIHCG high-expression groups. High GIHCG expression negatively correlated with the infiltration of memory CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, natural killer cells, macrophages, dendritic cells, neutrophils and monocytes.Conclusion:The findings of our study indicate that GIHCG is a biomarker that can be used to predict the prognosis of HCC patients and is correlated with immune cell infiltration in HCC.
GIHCG; immune cell infiltration; prognosis.
