33204848
2020 Nov 10
Background and aims:Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most common heterogeneous tumors that occurs after chronic liver diseases and hepatitis virus infection. Immune-related genes (IRGs) and their ligands regulate the homeostasis of tumor microenvironment, which is essential for the treatment of HCC and its prognosis. This study aimed to investigate the clinical value of IRGs in predicting the prognosis of HCC.Methods:We downloaded RNA-seq data and clinical information from TCGA database. Samples were randomly divided into training cohort and testing cohort. The "limma" R package was performed to identify differentially expressed IRGs (DEIRGs) between HCC group and normal group. Prognostic DEIRGs (PDEIRGs) were obtained by univariate Cox analysis. LASSO and multivariate Cox analysis were used, and a prognostic risk model was constructed. In order to better demonstrate the clinical value of our model in predicting overall survival rate, a nomogram was constructed. To further investigate the molecular mechanism of our model, gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) was performed.Results:Compared with the low-risk group, the high-risk group had a significantly worse prognosis. Moreover, our prognostic risk model can accurately stratify tumor grade and TNM stage. Importantly, in our model, not only immune checkpoint genes were well predicted, but also human leucocyte antigen-I molecules were revealed. GSEA suggested that "MAPK signaling pathway," "mTOR signaling pathway," "NOD like receptor signaling pathway," "Toll like receptor signaling pathway," "VEGF signaling pathway," "WNT signaling pathway" had significant correlations with the high-risk group.Conclusion:Overall, our study showed that our prognostic risk model can be used to assess prognosis of HCC, which may provide a certain basis for the survival rate of patients with HCC.
hepatocellular carcinoma; human leucocyte antigen‐I molecules; immune checkpoint genes; immune‐related genes; prognostic risk model.
