33211092
2020 Nov 19
Purpose:The activity of targeted agents and immunotherapy in the management of advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is reviewed.Summary:The first drug approved by the Food and Drug Administration for advanced HCC, sorafenib, was approved in 2007. Regorafenib, the second drug, was approved 10 years later. Six additional drugs have been approved since. Targeted agents and checkpoint inhibitors are the only agents approved for systemic therapy of advanced HCC. Sorafenib and lenvatinib are approved as first-line agents, with regorafenib, cabozantinib, ramucirumab, nivolumab (used alone or with ipilimumab), and pembrolizumab approved for patients who have received prior sorafenib therapy. Most patients in phase 3 studies had Child-Pugh class A cirrhosis, and data on the use of these agents in patients with more advanced hepatic dysfunction are limited. All of the targeted agents improve survival in patients with advanced disease. Median overall survival durations of up to 12.3 and 13.6 months were reported with use of sorafenib and lenvatinib, respectively, in phase 3 trials. Overall survival durations of 10.6, 10.2, and 9.2 months have been achieved with use of regorafenib, cabozantinib, and ramucirumab as second-line therapy after sorafenib. A median overall survival of 13.2 months was reported in 1 cohort of a dose-expansion study of nivolumab in which all patients received prior sorafenib therapy. Median survival durations of 12.9 months and 13.9 months were reported with use of pembrolizumab in patients with a history of sorafenib therapy. The most common adverse effects associated with targeted agents are dermatological effects, diarrhea, fatigue, and hypertension. Immune-mediated adverse effects are associated with checkpoint inhibitors.Conclusion:Targeted agents and checkpoint inhibitors are the standard of therapy for patients who need systemic therapy for advanced HCC.
cabozantinib; hepatocellular carcinoma; immunotherapy; lenvatinib; ramucirumab; regorafenib; sorafenib.
