33235099
2020 Nov 25
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a malignant tumor associated with a high recurrence rate after hepatectomy. Recently, preoperative inflammatory and liver function reserve indices were found to predict increased risk of recurrence and decreased survival in HCC patients. This study aims to evaluate the ability of the γ-glutamyl transpeptidase-to-albumin ratio (GAR) and aspartate aminotransferase-to-lymphocyte ratio (ALRI), individually and in combination, to predict the prognosis of HCC patients after hepatectomy.We retrospectively reviewed 206 HCC patients who underwent radical resection at the General Hospital of Ningxia Medical University from January 2011 to November 2016. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis was performed to determine the optimal cut-off value for GAR and ALRI. The Pearson Chi-Squared test was used to analyze the correlations between GAR, ALRI and clinicopathological characteristics. Univariate and multivariate analyses were used to determine the predictive value of these factors for disease-free survival (DFS) and overall survival (OS). Survival rates were drawn according to the Kaplan-Meier method and differences between subgroups were compared by the log-rank statistics.GAR and ALRI were significantly correlated with gender, history of smoking, prothrombin time, tumor diameter, T stage and early intrahepatic recurrence by the Pearson Chi-Squared test (all P 0.946 or ALRI > 18.734 predicted poor prognosis in HCC patients after hepatectomy. Additionally, the predictive scope of GAR combined with ALRI was more sensitive than that of either individual measurement alone.Our data indicate that there is a close association between the clinicopathological characteristics in HCC patients and increased GAR or ALRI. Higher levels of GAR and ALRI could sensitively and specifically predict a poor prognosis in HCC patients after hepatectomy. Furthermore, combined usage of GAR and ALRI could improve the accuracy of this prediction.

