33240817
2020 Nov 9
Background:SIGLEC family genes can also be expressed on tumor cells in different cancer types, and though it has been found that SIGLEC genes expressed by immune cells can be exploited by tumors to escape immune surveillance, functions of tumor derived SIGLEC expression in tumor microenvironment (TME) were barely investigated, which could play roles in cancer patients' survival.Methods:Using bioinformatic analysis, mutation status of SIGLEC family genes was explored through the cBioPortal database, and expression of them in different tumors was explored through the UALCAN database. The GEPIA database was used to compare SIGLEC family genes' mRNA between cancers and to generate a highly correlated gene list in tumors. A KM-plotter database was used to find the association between SIGLEC genes and survival of patients. The associations between SIGLEC family genes' expression, immune infiltration, and immune regulators' expression in TME were generated and examined by the TIMER 2.0 database; the differential fold changes of SIGLEC family genes in specific oncogenic mutation groups of different cancer types were also yielded by TIMER 2.0. The networks of SIGLEC family genes and highly correlated genes were constructed by the STRING database, and gene ontology and pathway annotation of SIGLEC family highly correlated genes were performed through the DAVID database.Results:SIGLEC family genes were highly mutated and amplified in melanoma, endometrial carcinoma, non-small cell lung cancer, bladder urothelial carcinoma, and esophagogastric adenocarcinoma, while deep deletion of SIGLEC family genes was common in diffuse glioma. Alteration of SIGLEC family genes demonstrated different levels in specific tumors, and oncogenic mutation in different cancer types could influence SIGLEC family genes' expression. Most SIGLEC family genes were related to patients' overall survival and progression free survival. Also, tumor derived SIGLEC family genes were related to tumor immune cell infiltration and may regulate TME by influencing chemokine axis.Conclusion:Our computational analysis showed SIGLEC family genes expressed by tumor cells were associated with tumor behaviors, and they may also influence TME through chemokine axis, playing vital roles in patients' survival. Further experiments targeting tumor derived SIGLEC family genes are needed to confirm their influences on tumor growth, metastasis, and immune environment regulation.
bioinformatic analysis; pan-cancer; tumor genesis; tumor immune microenvironment; tumor progression.
