33246501
2020 Nov 27
Background:Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) play an important role in tumor progression; concomitantly, MSCs also undergo profound changes in the tumor microenvironment (TME). These changes can directly impact the application and efficacy of MSC-based anti-tumor therapy. However, few studies have focused on the regulation of MSC fate in TME, which will limit the progress of MSC-based anti-tumor therapy. Herein, we investigated the effects of conditioned medium from human hepatocellular carcinoma cells (HCC-CM) on the phenotype and glucose metabolism of human adipose tissue-derived MSCs (hAT-MSCs).Methods:The passage 2 (P2) to passage 3 (P3) hAT-MSCs were exposed to conditioned medium from Hep3B, Huh7 and HCCLM3 cells for 4-8 weeks in vitro. Then, immunofluorescent, CCK-8 assay, EdU assay, Transwell assay, and flow cytometry were used to assess the alterations in cell phenotype in terms of cell morphology, secretory profiles, proliferation, migration, invasion, cell cycle, and apoptosis. In addition, glucose metabolism was evaluated by related kits. Next, the treated hAT-MSCs were subjected to withdrawal from HCC-CM for 2-4 weeks, and alterations in phenotype and glucose metabolism were reevaluated. Finally, the molecular mechanism was clarified by Western blotting.Results:The results revealed that after exposure to HCC-CM, hAT-MSCs developed a stellate-shaped morphology. In association with cytoskeleton remodeling, hAT-MSCs showed enhanced capacities for migration and invasion, while cell proliferation was inhibited by regulating the cell cycle by downregulating cyclins and cyclin-dependent kinases and activating the mitochondrial apoptosis pathway. In terms of glucose metabolism, our results showed mitochondrial dysfunction and elevated glycolysis of hAT-MSCs. However, interestingly, when the treated hAT-MSCs were subjected to withdrawal from HCC-CM, the alterations in phenotype and glucose metabolism could be reversed, but secretory phenotype and tumor-promoting properties appear to be permanent. Further studies showed that these changes in hAT-MSCs may be regulated by the ROS/MAPK/HIF-1α signaling pathway.Conclusion:Taken together, the effects of long-term HCC-CM treatment on phenotype and glucose metabolism in hAT-MSCs are modest and largely reversible after withdrawal, but HCC-CM endow hAT-MSCs with permanent secretory phenotype and tumor-promoting properties. This is the first report on the reversal of phenotype and glucose metabolism in tumor-associated MSCs (TA-MSCs), it is anticipated that new insights into TA-MSCs will lead to the development of novel strategies for MSC-based anti-tumor therapy.
Cell phenotype; Conditioned medium; Glucose metabolism; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Human adipose tissue-derived mesenchymal stem cells.
