33240929
2020 Nov 2
Background:BRCA1-associated protein (BRAP) is a critical gene that regulates inflammation-related signaling pathway and affects patients' prognosis in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC). However, its roles in different cancers remain largely unknown.Methods:BRAP expression in human pan-cancer was analyzed via the Genotype-Tissue Expression (GTEx) and The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database. Pearson correlation analysis was used to evaluate the association between BRAP expression with mismatch repair (MMR) gene mutation and DNA methyltransferase. We evaluated the influence of BRAP on clinical prognosis by univariate survival analysis. Moreover, the correlation between BRAP and tumor immune infiltration was analyzed via the Tumor Immune Evaluation Resource (TIMER) database. Pearson correlation analysis was used to investigate the correlation between BRAP expression and immune checkpoint genes expression.Results:BRAP is abnormally overexpressed and significantly correlated with MMR gene mutation level and DNA methyltransferase expression in human pan-cancer. Univariate survival analysis showed that BRAP was significant with patients' overall survival (OS) in six cancer types, disease-free interval (DFI) in three cancer types, and progression-free interval (PFI) in two cancer types. Remarkably, increased BRAP expression was strongly correlated with patients' poor prognosis in liver hepatocellular carcinoma (LIHC), whether OS (P < 0.0001, hazard ratio (HR) = 1.1), DFI (P = 0.00099, HR = 1.06), or PFI (P = 0.00025, HR = 1.07). Moreover, a positive relationship was found between BRAP expression and immune infiltrating cells including B cell, CD4 + T cell, CD8 + T cell, dendritic cell, macrophage cell, and neutrophil cell in colon adenocarcinoma (COAD), kidney renal clear cell carcinoma (KIRC), and LIHC. Additionally, BRAP expression showed strong correlations with immune checkpoint genes in LIHC.Conclusion:BRAP expression is increased in human pan-cancer samples compared with normal tissues. Overexpression of BRAP is correlated with poor prognosis and immune infiltration in multiple cancers, especially in LIHC. These findings suggest that BRAP may be used as a potential molecular biomarker for determining prognosis and immune infiltration in LIHC.
BRAP; immune infiltrate; pan-cancer; prognosis; tumorigenesis.
