33256276
2020 Nov 20
Objective: To explore the clinical value of serum des-γ-carboxy prothrombin (DCP) in predicting hepatocellular carcinoma recurrence after liver transplantation. Methods: A total of 115 cases with hepatocellular carcinoma who underwent liver transplantation in Zhongshan Hospital Affiliated to Fudan University from October 2016 to December 2018 were retrospectively analyzed. Receiver operating characteristic curve analysis, Mann-Whitney U test, Kaplan-Meier method, Log-Rank test, χ2 test, univariate and multivariate Cox regression analysis and other statistical methods were used to explore the value of DCP in predicting tumor recurrence after liver transplantation and its correlation with clinicopathological characteristics. Results: The preoperative serum DCP level in recurrent population after liver transplantation was significantly higher than that in non-recurrent population (P < 0.001). The optimal cut-off value of preoperative DCP for predicting recurrence was 200mAU/ml with the use of receiver operating characteristic curve. The sensitivity, specificity, Youden's index and the receiver operating characteristic curve was 87.90%, 57.30%, 0.452, and 0.726, respectively. Survival analysis results grouped by this cut-off value showed that patients with preoperative DCP ≥200mAU/ml had a higher probability of recurrence (P < 0.001). Further, subgroup survival analysis showed that patients with preoperative DCP≥200 mAU/ ml had a higher probability of recurrence than other cases of alpha-fetoprotein negative subgroup, cumulative tumor diameter ≤ 9 cm subgroup and Milan criteria subgroup (P < 0.05). Cox regression analysis showed that preoperative DCP≥200 mAU/ ml (P = 0.017) and cumulative tumor diameter > 9 cm (P = 0.014) was an independent risk factor for recurrence after liver transplantation. χ (2) test results showed that preoperative serum DCP level was correlated with gender, serum gamma glutamyltransferase level, serum alpha fetoprotein level, cumulative tumor diameter, vascular invasion, tumor differentiation and liver cancer transplant criteria (P < 0.05). Conclusion: Preoperative serum DCP can be used as a supplement to the existing liver cancer transplant criteria to predict hepatocellular carcinoma recurrence after liver transplantation. In addition, the accurate screening of patients with low risk of HCC recurrence after liver transplantation can improve the prognosis and efficacy of liver transplant patients.
Des-γ-carboxy prothrombin; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Liver transplantation; Tumor recurrence.
