33330040
2020 Nov 19
The use of immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) delivered great and new possibilities in modern treatment of many types of cancers. This therapy based on blockade of such molecules as CTLA-4 (cytotoxic T lymphocyte-associated antigen), PD-1 (programmed cell death receptor type 1), or PD-1 ligand (PD-L1) brings a new hope for patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), melanoma, or head and neck squamous carcinoma. Efficacy of immunotherapy was proven in many clinical trials. Unfortunately, ICIs treatment was not addressed to the patients with preexisting allogeneic transplants or autoimmune diseases mainly due to high risk of transplant rejection, exacerbation of autoimmune diseases, and risk of serious toxicity. However, it is possible to receive anti-tumor response to ICIs treatment avoiding graft rejection by adjusting the immunosuppression. Obviously, it depends on the type of transplants: the use of immunotherapy is usually possible in kidney or corneal recipients, but it could be difficult in patients with liver and heart transplant. Therefore, the development of biomarkers for tumor response and transplant rejection in ICIs treated patients is essential. Data coming from published literature support the possibilities of using ICIs in patients with preexisting autoimmune diseases who undergoing proper management of side effects of immunotherapy or when the potential benefits of such treatment outweigh the potential risks. This depends on the type of autoimmune disease and may be difficult or not feasible in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus or systemic sclerosis. Therefore, it may be appropriate to include cancer patients with preexisting autoimmune disease or with allogeneic transplants in clinical trials using immunotherapy when no other effective cancer treatment options exist.
PD-1 ligand; cytotoxic T lymphocyte-associated antigen; preexisting autoimmune disease; programmed cell death receptor type 1; transplant recipients.
