29783148
2018 Sep 5
In accordance with International Conference on Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Registration of Pharmaceuticals for Human Use (ICH) guidelines, six novel, simple and precise sequential spectrophotometric methods were developed and validated for the simultaneous analysis of Ribavirin (RIB), Sofosbuvir (SOF), and Daclatasvir (DAC) in their mixture without prior separation steps. These drugs are described as co-administered for treatment of Hepatitis C virus (HCV). HCV is the cause of hepatitis C and some cancers such as liver cancer (hepatocellular carcinoma) and lymphomas in humans. These techniques consisted of several sequential steps using zero, ratio and/or derivative spectra. DAC was first determined through direct spectrophotometry at 313.7 nm without any interference of the other two drugs while RIB and SOF can be determined after ratio subtraction through five methods; Ratio difference spectrophotometric method, successive derivative ratio method, constant center, isoabsorptive method at 238.8 nm, and mean centering of the ratio spectra (MCR) at 224 nm and 258 nm for RIB and SOF, respectively. The calibration curve is linear over the concentration ranges of (6-42), (10-70) and (4-16) μg/mL for RIB, SOF, and DAC, respectively. This method was successfully applied to commercial pharmaceutical preparation of the drugs, spiked human urine, and spiked human plasma. The above methods are very simple methods that were developed for the simultaneous determination of binary and ternary mixtures and so enhance signal-to-noise ratio. The method has been successfully applied to the simultaneous analysis of RIB, SOF, and DAC in laboratory prepared mixtures. The obtained results are statistically compared with those obtained by the official or reported methods, showing no significant difference with respect to accuracy and precision at p = 0.05.
Constant center; Isoabsorptive point; Mean centering of ratio spectra; Sequential spectrophotometric; Successive derivative ratio method.
