29901131
2018 Sep
Sorafenib (Nexavar, BAY43‑9006 or Sora) is the first molecular targeted agent that has exhibited significant therapeutic benefits in advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). However, not all HCC patients respond well to Sora and novel therapeutic strategies to optimize the efficacy of Sora are urgently required. Plant‑based drugs have received increasing attention owing to their excellent chemotherapeutic and chemopreventive activities; they are also well tolerated, non‑toxic, easily available and inexpensive. It is well known that certain biologically active natural products act synergistically with synthetic drugs used in clinical applications. The present study aimed to investigate whether a combination therapy with natural phenolic compounds (NPCs), including curcumin (Cur), quercetin (Que), kaempherol (Kmf) and resveratrol (Rsv), would allow a dose reduction of Sora without concomitant loss of its effectiveness. Furthermore, the possible molecular mechanisms of this synergy were assessed. The hepatic cancer cell lines Hep3b and HepG2 were treated with Sora alone or in combination with NPCs in concomitant, sequential, and inverted sequential regimens. Cell proliferation, cell cycle, apoptosis and expression of proteins associated with the cell cycle and apoptosis were investigated. NPCs markedly potentiated the therapeutic efficacy of Sora in a sequence‑, type‑, NPC dose‑ and cell line‑dependent manner. Concomitant treatment with Sora and Cur [sensitization ratio (SR)=28], Kmf (SR=18) or Que (SR=8) was associated with the highest SRs in Hep3b cells. Rsv markedly potentiated the effect of Sora (SR=17) on Hep3b cells when administered in a reverse sequential manner. By contrast, Rsv and Que did not improve the efficacy of Sora against HepG2 cells, while concomitant treatment with Cur (SR=10) or Kmf (SR=4.01) potentiated the cytotoxicity of Sora. Concomitant treatment with Sora and Cur or Kmf caused S‑phase and G2/M phase arrest of liver cancer cells and markedly induced apoptosis compared with mono‑treatment with Sora, Cur or Kmf. Concomitant treatment with Sora and Cur reduced the protein levels of cyclins A, B2 and D1, phosphorylated retinoblastoma and B‑cell lymphoma (Bcl) extra‑large protein. By contrast, Sora and Cur co‑treatment increased the protein levels of Bcl‑2‑associated X protein, cleaved caspase‑3 and cleaved caspase‑9 in a dose‑dependent manner. In conclusion, concomitant treatment with Sora and Cur or Kmf appears to be a potent and promising therapeutic approach that may control hepatic cancer by triggering cell cycle arrest and apoptosis. Additional studies are required to examine the potential of combined treatment with Sora and NPCs in human hepatic cancer and other solid tumor types in vivo.

