29956741
2018 Sep
Regucalcin plays a crucial role as a regulator of transcriptional signaling activity, and its decreased expression or activity may contribute to the promotion of human carcinogenesis. A higher regucalcin expression in the tumor tissues has been demonstrated to prolong the survival of patients with various types of cancer, including pancreatic cancer, breast cancer, liver cancer and lung adenocarcinoma. The involvement of regucalcin in human colorectal cancer was investigated in the current study. Regucalcin gene expression and the survival data of 62 patients with colorectal cancer were obtained though the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database (GSE12945) for outcome analysis. The data of gene expression revealed that the prolonged survival of patients with colorectal cancer was associated with a higher regucalcin gene expression in tumor tissues. The overexpression of regucalcin suppressed colony formation and proliferation, and induced the death of human colorectal carcinoma RKO cells cultured in a medium containing fetal bovine serum in vitro. Mechanistically, the overexpression of regucalcin induced the G1 and G2/M phase cell cycle arrest of the RKO cells through the suppression of multiple signaling pathways, including Ras, Akt, mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase and SAPK/JNK. Of note, the overexpression of regucalcin induced an increase in the levels of the tumor suppressors, p53 and Rb, and the cell cycle inhibitor, p21. Moreover, the levels of the transcription factors, c‑fos, c‑jun, nuclear factor (NF)‑κB p65, β-catenin and signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (Stat3), were suppressed by the overexpression of regucalcin. On the whole, the findings of this study suggest that regucalcin plays a crucial role as a suppressor in human colorectal cancer, and that the suppressed expression of the regucalcin gene may predispose patients to the promotion of colorectal cancer. The overexpression of regucalcin by gene delivery may thus prove to be a novel therapeutic strategy for colorectal cancer.

