29962026
2018 Sep
This work demonstrates the efficacy of voxel-based 90 Y microsphere dosimetry utilizing post-therapy SPECT/CT imaging and applies it to the prediction of treatment response for the management of patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). A 90 Y microsphere dosimetry navigator (RapidSphere) within a commercial platform (Velocity, Varian Medical Systems) was demonstrated for three microsphere cases that were imaged using optimized bremsstrahlung SPECT/CT. For each case, the 90 Y SPECT/CT was registered to follow-up diagnostic MR/CT using deformable image registration. The voxel-based dose distribution was computed using the local deposition method with known injected activity. The system allowed the visualization of the isodose distributions on any of the registered image datasets and the calculation of dose-volume histograms (DVHs). The dosimetric analysis illustrated high local doses that are characteristic of blood-flow directed brachytherapy. In the first case, the HCC mass demonstrated a complete response to treatment indicated by a necrotic region in follow-up MR imaging. This result was dosimetrically predicted since the gross tumor volume (GTV) was well covered by the prescription isodose volume (V150 Gy = 85%). The second case illustrated a partial response to treatment which was characterized by incomplete necrosis of an HCC mass and a remaining area of solid enhancement in follow-up MR imaging. This result was predicted by dosimetric analysis because the GTV demonstrated incomplete coverage by the prescription isodose volume (V470 Gy = 18%). The third case demonstrated extrahepatic activity. The dosimetry indicated that the prescription (125 Gy) isodose region extended outside of the liver into the duodenum (178 Gy maximum dose). This was predictive of toxicity as the patient later developed a duodenal ulcer. The ability to predict outcomes and complications using deformable image registration, calculated isodose distributions, and DVHs, points to the clinical utility of patient-specific dose calculations for 90 Y radioembolization treatment planning.
SPECT; Yttrium-90; dosimetry.
