29990893
2018 Sep 10
Liver fibrosis is a common consequence of chronic liver diseases resulting from multiple etiologies. Furthermore, prolonged unresolved liver fibrosis may gradually progress to cirrhosis, and eventually evolve into hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Corydalis saxicola Bunting (CS), a type of traditional Chinese folk medicine, has been reported to have hepatoprotective effects on the liver. However, the exact mechanism of how it cures liver fibrosis requires further elucidation. In this work, an integrated approach combining proton nuclear magnetic resonance (1H-NMR)-based metabonomics and network pharmacology was adopted to elucidate the anti-fibrosis mechanism of CS. Metabonomic study of serum biochemical changes by carbon tetrachloride (CCl4)-induced liver fibrosis in rats after CS treatment were performed using 1H-NMR analysis. Metabolic profiling by means of partial least squares-discriminate analysis (PLS-DA) indicated that the metabolic perturbation caused by CCl4 was reduced after CS treatment. As a result, lipids, leucine, alanine, acetate, O-acetyl-glycoprotein and creatine were significantly restored after CS treatment, which regulated valine, leucine and isoleucine metabolism; arginine and proline metabolism; lipid metabolism and pyruvate metabolism. Additionally, 157 potential targets of CS and 265 targets of liver fibrosis were identified by means of network pharmacology. Subsequently, 5 target proteins, which are the intersection of potential CS targets and liver fibrosis targets, indicated that CS has potential anti-fibrosis effects through regulating alanine aminotransferase (ALT) activity, the farnesoid X receptor (FXR), cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), matrix metalloproteinase-1 (MMP-1) and angiotensinogen. Chelerythrine and sanguinarine were the potential active compounds in CS for treating liver fibrosis through regulating ALT activity. This study is the first report to study the anti-fibrosis effects of CS on the basis of combining a metabonomics and network pharmacology approaches, and it may be a potentially powerful tool to study the efficacy and mechanisms of traditional Chinese folk medicines.
Carbon tetrachloride; Corydalis saxicola bunting; Liver fibrosis; Metabonomics(1)H-NMR; Network pharmacology.
