30098829
2018 Sep
Background:Though the levels of diagnosis and treatment of multiple myeloma (MM) have been largely improved recent years, the prognosis of these patients remain unacceptable. It is urgent for us to discover the exact mechanism and determine some new indicators for MM. MiRNAs play a critical role in the occurrence and progression of cancers, including MM. MiR-26b-5p has been reported to be closely related to cells proliferation in human pulmonary cancer, hepatocellular carcinoma and so on.Material and methods:Here, we measured the expression of miR-26b-5p in MM samples and cell lines by real-time PCR. Then, Kaplan-Meier Curves were applied to assess the effect of miR-26b-5p expression on MM patients prognosis. Functionally, MTT assay and Flow cytometry were conducted to explore the functions of miR-26b-5p in cells proliferation and apoptosis. Furthermore, bioinformatics tools, Pearson's correlation coefficient analysis, gain-and loss of-function experiments and rescue experiment were used to determine the relationship between JAG1 and miR-26b-5p in MM cells. In addition, we also confirmed the role of JAG1 in MM cells proliferation and apoptosis by gain-and loss of-function experiments.Results:Here, we reported for the first time that miR-26b-5p was under-expressed in MM by real-time PCR. Clinically, Kaplan-Meier Curves showed that MM patients with lower miR-26b-5p expression had worse prognosis. Functionally, MTT assay revealed that miR-26b-5p inhibited cells proliferation. Flow cytometry indicated that miR-26b-5p accelerated tumor cells apoptosis. Furthermore, bioinformatics tools, Pearson's correlation coefficient analysis gain-and loss of-function experiments showed that JAG1 was the target of miR-26b-5p in MM cells. And, gain-and loss of-function experiments for JAG1 confirmed that JAG1 was an oncogene in MM cells. What's more, rescue experiment showed that JAG1 mediated the function of miR-26b-5p in MM cells.Conclusion:MiR-26b-5p acts as a tumor suppressor through suppressing cells proliferation and inducing cells apoptosis via directly targeting JAG1 in MM. MiR-26b-5p could be a potential and ponderable tumor target for MM in future.
JAG1; Multiple myeloma; Proliferation; miR-26b-5p.
