30141807
2018 Sep 19
Lipin1 participates in numerous cellular processes, including in the dephosphorylation of phosphatidic acid to diacylglycerol and as a co-transcriptional regulator. Iron is also essential in various critical biological processes. Previous studies have shown that compared to normal tissue cells, lipin1 expression and iron metabolism are abnormal in cancer cells. However, the involvement of lipin1 in the regulation of iron metabolism is unknown. In this study, we compared the contents of eight metal ions (potassium, calcium, sodium, magnesium, manganese, zinc, iron and copper) in human hepatoma carcinoma BEL7402 control cells as well as stable cells overexpressing lipin1 by using ICP-AES. Our results showed that only intracellular iron content was significantly decreased by lipin1 overexpression. Meanwhile, we observed that lipin1 overexpression could inhibit cell proliferation, similar to iron chelator deferoxamine. Western blotting showed that the up-regulation of p53-p21-p27 elicited cell cycle G0/G1 arrest in the stable cells overexpressing lipin1. Conversely, after lipin1 was down regulated with siRNA, we found that cell proliferation was promoted, accompanied by an increase in iron content, and the downregulation of p53 and p21. Our data indicate that lipin1 overexpression may cause reduction of intracellular iron content, which could activate the p53-p21-p27 signaling pathways, leading to cell cycle arrest at the G0/G1 phase in the hepatic carcinoma cells. Subsequently, we identified the putative cause for the decrease of the intracellular iron content induced by lipin1 overexpression. Our results suggested that the intracellular iron reduction was due to the increase in the expression of ferroportin, an iron export protein in the stable cells overexpressing lipin1. In contrast, after transfection with lipin1 siRNA, the decreased expression of ferroportin contributed to an increase in the iron content in BEL7402 cells. It was further confirmed that the intracellular iron content was increased after ferroportin was knocked down by siRNA in BEL7402 cells. Taken together, our findings demonstrate for the first time that lipin1 participates in the regulation of iron metabolism in human hepatic carcinoma cells. This suggests that lipin1 may play an important protective role in inhibiting the development of cancer through the reduction of iron content in tumors, which further demonstrates that iron reduction could be a potential strategy of cancer prevention and treatment.

