30177770
2018 Sep 3
Tissue macrophage-derived apoptosis inhibitor of macrophage (AIM, encoded by cd5l gene) is a circulating protein that has suppressive functions in a broad range of diseases including obesity, liver steatosis, hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), and acute kidney injury (AKI). In healthy states, high levels of AIM circulate in the inactivated state by associating with the immunoglobulin M (IgM) pentamer in the blood, whereas during AKI, AIM dissociates from IgM and gains disease repair activity. Here, we assessed whether AIM activation via its release from IgM is required to ameliorate other diseases. To this end, we employed a mouse line in which mouse AIM was replaced with feline AIM (AIM-felinized mice). Because feline AIM rarely dissociates from IgM due to its extremely high binding affinity for IgM, these mice exhibited deficient AKI repair as in cats. When fed a high-fat diet (HFD), similar to AIM-deficient (AIM-/-) mice, AIM-felinized mice exhibited enhanced triacylglycerol deposition in visceral adipocytes and hepatocytes, resulting in more prominent obesity and fatty liver than in wild-type mice. In contrast, the incidence of HCC after a 1-year HFD was remarkably lower in AIM-felinized mice than in AIM-/- mice, suggesting that AIM produced by liver Kupffer macrophages might directly facilitate the elimination of HCC cells. Accordingly, the marked deposition of AIM accompanied by accumulation of Kupffer cells was obvious during HCC tumour development in AIM-felinized mice. Δsµ mice, which harbour almost no circulating AIM due to the lack of secreted IgM, showed a phenotype comparable with that of AIM-felinized mice in prevention of those diseases. Thus, blood AIM released from IgM contributes to suppression of obesity and fatty liver as in AKI, whereas macrophage-derived noncirculating AIM mainly prevents HCC development. Our study depicted two different modes of disease prevention/repair facilitated by AIM, which could be the basis for HCC therapy that works by increasing AIM expression in macrophages.

