30175943
2018 Sep
Chronic liver diseases are fifth leading cause of fatality in developing countries. Early diagnosis is important for timely treatment and to salvage life. Ultrasound imaging is frequently used to examine abnormalities of liver. However, ambiguity lies in visual interpretation of liver stages on ultrasound images. This difficult visualization problem can be solved by analysing extracted textural features from images. Grey-level difference matrix, a texture feature extraction method, can provide information about roughness of liver surface, sharpness of liver borders and echotexture of liver parenchyma. In this article, the behaviour of variants of grey-level difference matrix in characterizing liver stages is investigated. The texture feature sets are extracted by using variants of grey-level difference matrix based on two, three, five and seven neighbouring pixels. Thereafter, to take the advantage of complementary information from extracted feature sets, feature fusion schemes are implemented. In addition, hybrid feature selection (combination of ReliefF filter method and sequential forward selection wrapper method) is used to obtain optimal feature set in characterizing liver stages. Finally, a computer-aided system is designed with the optimal feature set to classify liver health in terms of normal, chronic liver, cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma evolved over cirrhosis. In the proposed work, experiments are performed to (1) identify the best approximation of derivative (forward, central or backward); (2) analyse the performance of individual feature sets of variants of grey-level difference matrix; (3) obtain optimal feature set by exploiting the complementary information from variants of grey-level difference matrix and (4) analyse the performance of proposed method in comparison with existing feature extraction methods. These experiments are carried out on database of 754 segmented regions of interest formed by clinically acquired ultrasound images. The results show that classification accuracy of 94.5% is obtained by optimal feature set having complementary information from variants of grey-level difference matrix.
Chronic liver disease; ReliefF algorithm; computer-aided diagnosis; feature fusion; grey-level difference matrix; sequential forward selection.
