30211206
2018 Sep 6
Aim:To review the conversion therapy for initially unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) patients and the suitable timing for subsequent salvage surgery.Methods:A PubMed search was undertaken from 1987 to 2017 to identify articles using the keywords including "unresectable" "hepatocellular carcinoma", "hepatectomy", "conversion therapy", "resection", "salvage surgery" and "downstaging". Additional studies were investigated through a manual search of the references from the articles. The exclusion criteria were duplicates, case reports, case series, videos, contents unrelated to the topic, comments, and editorial essays. The main and widely used conversion therapies and the suitable timing for subsequent salvage surgery were discussed in detail. Two members of our group independently performed the literature search and data extraction.Results:Liver volume measurements [future liver remnant (FLR)/total liver volume or residual liver volume/bodyweight ratio] and function tests (scoring systems and liver stiffness) were often performed in order to justify whether patients were suitable candidates for surgery. Successful conversion therapy was usually defined as downstaging the tumor, increasing FLR and providing subsequent salvage surgery, without increasing complications, morbidity or mortality. The requirements for performing salvage surgery after transcatheter arterial chemoembolization were the achievement of a partial remission in radiology, the disappearance of the portal vein thrombosis, and the lack of extrahepatic metastasis. Patients with a standardized FLR (sFLR) > 20% were good candidates for surgery after portal vein embolization, while other predictive parameters like growth rate, kinetic growth rate were treated as an effective supplementary. There was probably not enough evidence to provide a standard operation time after associating liver partition and portal vein ligation for staged hepatectomy or yttrium-90 microsphere radioembolization. The indications of any combinations of conversion therapies and the subsequent salvage surgery time still need to be carefully and comprehensively evaluated.Conclusion:Conversion therapy is recommended for the treatment of initially unresectable HCC, and the suitable subsequent salvage surgery time should be reappraised and is closely related to its previous therapeutic effect.
Conversion therapy; Downstaging; Hepatectomy; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Salvage surgery; Unresectable.
