30219954
2018 Sep 15
Background:Gallbladder cancer (GBC) is one of the refractory diseases. Multidisciplinary approach including immunotherapy for such cancers has received much attention in recent years.Case presentation:A 59-year-old man underwent an extended cholecystectomy for GBC (pathological stage II, T2 N0 M0, [per UICC 7th edition]) that was incidentally found during cholelithiasis surgery, and was then treated with adjuvant gemcitabine (GEM). Three months later, when a recurrence-suspected lesion was detected in segment 5 (S5) of his liver, we started adoptive immunotherapies with cytokine-activated killer (CAK) cell infusions, combined with chemotherapy. After a year of adjuvant immunochemotherapy, the S5 lesion disappeared on imaging, but lesions suspected metastatic recurrence again appeared in S7 and S8 at 4 years and 6 months post-surgery, for which GEM and cisplatin (CDDP) were administered as second-line chemotherapy. Immunochemotherapy produced stable disease (per RECIST) for 9 months, when tumor growth was detected; open microwave coagulo-necrotic therapy (MCN) was performed for these lesions. Three years after MCN, a solitary liver metastasis was detected in S4. MCN was conducted again, and peritoneal dissemination was found intraoperatively. A month after the second MCN, the patient's carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) level had increased. Therefore, GEM and tegafur-gimeracil-oteracil potassium (TS-1) were administered as third-line chemotherapy. We also switched the adoptive immunotherapy for tumor-associated antigen-pulsed dendritic cell-activated killer (DAK) cell immunotherapy. After nine courses of GEM and TS-1 administration, CEA had decreased to a normal level. At the time of reporting, 9 years and 6 months have passed since the initial surgery, and 18 months have passed since the peritoneal metastasis was detected. GEM and CDDP are currently administered as fourth-line chemotherapy because of re-increased CEA. Although an undeniable metastasis was found in his para-aortic lymph node, this patient visits our clinic regularly for immunotherapy.Conclusion:We here report a rare case of long-term survival of recurrent GBC well controlled by multidisciplinary therapy. Immunotherapy may be a promising modality among multidisciplinary methods for advanced cancer.
Cytokine-activated killer cell; Gallbladder cancer; Immunotherapy; MUC-1; NKG2D.
