30249278
2018 Sep 24
Background:Long noncoding RNAs (LncRNAs) have been reported to be abnormally expressed in human ovarian cancer and associated with the proliferation and metastasis of cancer cells. The objective of this study was to investigate the role and the underlying mechanisms of LncRNA MAP3K20 antisense RNA 1 (MLK7-AS1) in ovarian cancer.Methods:The expression level of MLK7-AS1 was investigated in human ovarian cancer tissues and cell lines. The effects of MLK7-AS1 knockdown on ovarian cancer cell proliferation, migration, invasion and apoptosis were evaluated in vitro using MTT, colony formation assays, wound healing assays, transwell assays and flow cytometry. Furthermore, the in vivo effects were determined using the immunodeficient NSG female mice. Luciferase reporter assays were employed to identify interactions among MLK7-AS1 and its target genes.Results:In the current study, MLK7-AS1 was specifically upregulated in ovarian cancer tissues and cell lines. Knockdown of MLK7-AS1 inhibited the ability of cell migration, invasion, proliferation, colony formation and wound healing, whereas promoted cell apoptosis in vitro. By using online tools and mechanistic analysis, we demonstrated that MLK7-AS1 could directly bind to miR-375 and downregulate its expression. Besides, MLK7-AS1 reversed the inhibitory effect of miR-375 on the growth of ovarian cancer cells, which might be involved in the upregulation of Yes-associated protein 1 (YAP1) expression. Moreover, knockdown MLK7-AS1 expression inhibited primary tumor growth in ovary and metastatic tumors in multiple peritoneal organs including liver and spleen in vivo, which were partly abolished by miR-375 inhibition. Mechanically, we found that MLK7-AS1 modulated the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) process by interacting with miR-375/YAP1 both in vivo and vitro, which promoted the expression of Slug.Conclusions:Taken together, our study showed for the first time that MLK7-AS1 interacted with miR-375 to promote proliferation, metastasis, and EMT process in ovarian cancer cells through upregulating YAP1.
LncRNA; MLK7-AS1; Ovarian cancer; Slug; YAP1; miR-375.
