30249289
2018 Sep 18
Background:The sperm-associated antigen 5 (SPAG5) plays a key role in controlling various cellular phenomena, including cell cycle progression and proliferation. However, the role of SPAG5 in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains unknown.Methods:This study investigated the function and clinical significance of SPAG5 protein expression in hepatocellular carcinoma. We analyzed SPAG5 expression in surgical specimens from 136 HCC patients. The correlation between the clinical characteristics and prognosis was also determined. Furthermore, the SPAG5 was overexpressed in HCC cell and silenced with shRNA in HCC cells. Moreover, cell proliferation and apoptosis were measured using Edu assay and flow cytometry and a molecular mechanism of SPAG5 promotes HCC progression was explored.Results:Herein, our study showed that upregulation of SPAG5 was detected frequently in primary HCC tissues, and was associated with significantly worse survival among the HCC patients. Multivariate analyses revealed that high SPAG5 expression was an independent predictive marker for the poor prognosis of HCC. SPAG5 silence effectively abolished the proliferation abilities of SPAG5 in vivo and in vitro, while induced apoptosis in HCC cells. Furthermore, our results indicate that SPAG5 promoted cell progression by decreasing SCARA5 expression, which has been reported to control the progression of HCC, and our data demonstrated that SCARA5 is crucial for SPAG5-mediated HCC cell progression in vitro and in vivo. Moreover, we found that the expression of SPAG5 and SCARA5 are inversely correlated in HCC tissues. In addition, we demonstrated that SPAG5 promoted progression in HCC via downregulating SCARA5 depended on the β-catenin/TCF4 signaling pathway. Interestingly, the underlying mechanism is which SPAG5 regulates SCARA5 expression by modulating β-catenin degradation.Conclusions:Taken together, our data provide a novel evidence for the biological and clinical significance of SPAG5 as a potential biomarker, and we demonstrate that SPAG5-β-catenin-SCARA5 might be a novel pathway involved in HCC progression.
Degradation; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Progression; SCARA5; SPAG5; β-Catenin.
