30241515
2018 Sep 21
Background:The combination of chemotherapy and L-asparaginase (L-ASP) treatment significantly increased survival rate in an adult patient with extranodal natural killer (NK)/T-cell lymphoma (NKTCL). However, hypersensitivity reactions of L-ASP in some patients limited its application. Polyethylene glycol-conjugated asparaginase (PEG-ASP) has a lower immunogenicity and longer circulating half-life than unconjugated L-ASP, and has been reported to be effective and well-tolerated in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Cyclophosphamide, hydroxydaunorubicin (doxorubicin), oncovin (vincristine), and prednisolone (CHOP) is the most common chemotherapy for non-Hodgkin lymphoma. In this report, we sought to study the efficacy and safety of PEG-L- CHOP in NKTCL in adult Chinese patients.Methods:Our study is a prospective, multi-center, open-label clinical trial. Patients with newly diagnosed adult NKTCL and an ECOG performance status of 0 to 2 were eligible for enrollment. Treatment included six cycles of PEG-L-CHOP regimen. Radiotherapy was scheduled after 2-4 cycles of PEG-L-CHOP regimen, depending on the stage and primary anatomic site.Results:We enrolled a total of 33 eligible patients. All 33 patients completed 170 cycles of chemotherapy combined with radical radiotherapy. The overall response rate was 96.9% (32/33) with 75.8% (25/33) achieving complete responses and 21.2% (7/33) achieving partial responses. The overall survival (OS) at 1, 2, 3-year were 100, 90.61 and 80.54%, respectively. The major adverse effects were bone marrow suppression, reduction of fibrinogen level, liver dysfunction, and digestive tract toxicities. No allergic reaction and no treatment-related mortality or severe complications were recorded.Conclusions:PEG-L-CHOP chemotherapy in combination radiotherapy is safe and durably effective treatment for adult extranodal NK/T-cell lymphoma with fewer allergic reactions. This study was approved by the Peking University Beijing Cancer Hospital Ethics Review Committee (reference number: 2011101104). The clinical trial registration number ChiCTR1800016940 was registered on July 07, 2018 at the Chinese Clinical Trial Registry ( http://www.chictr.org.cn/index.aspx ). The clinical trial was registered retrospectively.
Clinical trial; Extranodal natural killer (NK)/T-cell lymphoma (NKTCL); PEG-ASP); Polyethylene glycol-conjugated asparaginase (pegaspargase; Therapy.
