30268144
2018 Sep 29
Background:Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most lethal cancer, mainly attributing to its high tendency to metastasis. Vascular invasion provides a direct path for solid tumor metastasis. Mounting evidence has demonstrated that microRNAs (miRNAs) are related to human cancer onset and progression including invasion and metastasis.Methods:In search of invasion-metastasis-associated miRNAs in HCC, microarray dataset GSE67140 was downloaded from the Gene Expression Omnibus database. Differentially expressed miRNAs (DE-miRNAs) were obtained by R software package and the potential target genes were predicted by miRTarBase. The database for annotation, visualization and integrated discovery (DAVID) was introduced to perform functional annotation and pathway enrichment analysis for these potential targets of DE-miRNAs. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) network was established by STRING database and visualized by Cytoscape software. The effects of the miR-494-3p and miR-126-3p on migration and invasion of HCC cell lines were evaluated by conducting wound healing assay and transwell assay.Results:A total of 138 DE-miRNAs were screened out, including 57 upregulated miRNAs and 81 downregulated miRNAs in human HCC tumors with vascular invasion compared with human HCC tumors without vascular invasion. 762 target genes of the top three upregulated and downregulated miRNAs were predicted, and they were involved in HCC-related pathways, such as pathway in cancer, focal adhesion and MAPK signaling pathway. In the PPI network, the top 10 hub nodes with higher degrees were identified as hub genes, such as TP53 and MYC. Through constructing the miRNA-hub gene network, we found that most of hub genes could be potentially modulated by miR-494-3p and miR-126-3p. Of note, miR-494-3p and miR-126-3p was markedly upregulated and downregulated in HCC cell lines and tissues, respectively. In addition, overexpression of miR-494-3p could significantly promote HCC migration and invasion whereas overexpression of miR-126-3p exerted an opposite effect.Conclusions:Targeting miR-494-3p and miR-126-3p may provide effective and promising approaches to suppress invasion and metastasis of HCC.
Bioinformatic analysis; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Invasion; Metastasis; microRNA.
