30274167
2018 Sep 28
Exosomes released by cells can serve as vehicles for delivery of biological materials and signals. Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) are non-coding RNAs longer than 200 nt, which roles are increasingly appreciated in various biological content. Tumor-derived exosomal lncRNAs have been implicated as signaling mediators to orchestrate cell function among neighbor tumor cells. However, the role of tumor-derived lncRNAs in cross-talk with environmental macrophages has yet to be explored. In this paper, we demonstrated that hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cells⁻derived exosomes contain elevated levels of lncRNA TUC339 and that HCC-derived exosomes could be taken up by THP-1 cells. In seeking to dissect the biological function of tumor secreting TUC339 in macrophages, we applied loss-of-function and gain-of-function strategies. We observed increased pro-inflammatory cytokine production, increased co-stimulatory molecule expression, and enhanced phagocytosis upon suppression of TUC339 by siRNA in THP-1 cells, and the opposite effect upon over-expression of this lncRNA, which indicates that TUC339 was involved in the regulation of macrophage activation. Moreover, we detected an elevated level of TUC339 in M(IL-4) macrophages as compared to M(IFN-γ + LPS) macrophages and a down-regulation of TUC339 expression during M(IL-4)-to-M(IFN-γ + LPS) repolarization and vice versa. Furthermore, suppression of TUC339 in macrophages diminished the expression of M(IL-4) markers upon IL-4 treatment while overexpression of TUC339 in macrophages enhanced M(IL-4) markers upon IFN-γ + LPS treatment, which suggests a critical function of TUC339 in the regulation of macrophage M1/M2 polarization. Lastly, using microarray analysis, we identified cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction, CXCR chemokine receptor binding, Toll-like receptor signaling, FcγR-mediated phagocytosis, regulation of the actin cytoskeleton, and cell proliferation are related with TUC339 function in macrophages. Our results provide evidence for a novel regulatory function of tumor-derived exosomal lncRNA TUC339 in environmental macrophages and shed light on the complicated interactions between tumor and immune cells through exosomal lncRNAs.
exosomes; inflammation; lncRNA; macrophage; polarization.
