32074057
2018 Sep
Introduction:Field junctions present a major challenge for planning craniospinal irradiation (CSI) using volumetric modulated arc therapy (VMAT). In this study, the feasibility of using in silico base dose distributions for planning junctioned VMAT fields for CSI is assessed.Methods:An in-house computer program was created to generate strategic base plans with controlled linear dose gradients across the junction. The algorithm was generalized to allow user-defined parameters such as number of junctions and junction length. In silico base plans were used to optimize junctioned VMAT CSI plans for a pediatric case and an adult case. Throughout optimization, dose to the eyes, kidneys, lungs, heart, and liver were minimized. Final plan quality was evaluated using the percent of planning target volume receiving at least 95% prescription dose (V95%), homogeneity index, and conformity number. Final plan robustness to setup error was evaluated using changes in near-minimum, median, and near-maximum doses defined as the most exposed 98%, 50%, and 2% of the planning target volume (D98%, D50%, D2%) within the junction region before and after setup errors of ±3, ±5, and ±7 mm in the craniocaudal direction.Results:The program generated ideal in silico dose distributions that were compatible with a commercial treatment planning system for use as base doses during VMAT optimization. VMAT plans, that were optimized with the in silico base plans, had complementary linear dose profiles across the junction. Final pediatric and adult VMAT CSI plans both had V95% ≥98.1% and 98.1%, homogeneity index: 0.09 and 0.10, and conformity number: 0.86, 0.84, respectively. In addition, dose to surrounding organs at risk was acceptably low for both cases. For ±3 mm setup errors, small variations in the junction dose were recorded with ΔD98% ≤2.3%, ΔD50% ≤2.3%, and ΔD2% ≤2.8%.Conclusions:This is the first demonstration of junctioned VMAT field optimization with a controlled linear dose gradient across the junction without the use of any extra planning contours. Planning junctioned VMAT using in silico base plans is feasible and capable of generating high-quality plans that are robust to clinically expected setup variations.
Inverse plan optimization; Treatment planning.
