29724129
2018 Nov
The tumor-homing properties of mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) have led to their development as delivery vehicles for the targeted delivery of therapeutic genes such as the sodium-iodide symporter (NIS) to solid tumors. External beam radiation therapy may represent an ideal setting for the application of engineered MSC-based gene therapy, as tumor irradiation may enhance MSC recruitment into irradiated tumors through the increased production of select factors linked to MSC migration. In the present study, the irradiation of human liver cancer cells (HuH7; 1-10 Gy) showed a strong dose-dependent increase in steady-state mRNA levels of CXCL8, CXCL12, FGF2, PDGFB, TGFB1, THBS1, and VEGF (0-48 h), which was verified for most factors at the protein level (after 48 h). Radiation effects on directed MSC migration were tested in vitro using a live cell tracking migration assay and supernatants from control and irradiated HuH7 cells. A robust increase in mean forward migration index, mean center of mass, and mean directionality of MSCs toward supernatants was seen from irradiated as compared to non-irradiated tumor cells. Transferability of this effect to other tumor sources was demonstrated using the human breast adenocarcinoma cell line (MDA-MB-231), which showed a similar behavior to radiation as seen with HuH7 cells in quantitative polymerase chain reaction and migration assay. To evaluate this in a more physiologic in vivo setting, subcutaneously growing HuH7 xenograft tumors were irradiated with 0, 2, or 5 Gy followed by CMV-NIS-MSC application 24 h later. Tumoral iodide uptake was monitored using 123I-scintigraphy. The results showed increased tumor-specific dose-dependent accumulation of radioiodide in irradiated tumors. The results demonstrate that external beam radiation therapy enhances the migratory capacity of MSCs and may thus increase the therapeutic efficacy of MSC-mediated NIS radionuclide therapy.
external beam radiation therapy; gene therapy; hepatocellular carcinoma; mesenchymal stem cells; sodium–iodide symporter.
