30051749
2018 Nov 15
Adult tissues are thought to harbor two populations of "dormant" and "actively dividing" stem cells. Quiescent stem cells undergo rare asymmetric cell divisions (ACDs) through which they self-renew and give rise to tissue-committed "progenitors" of distinct fate and "progenitors" in turn undergo symmetric cell divisions (SCDs) and clonal expansion. However, quiescent stem cells have not been demonstrated in adult tissues such as skin, testis, liver, and brain. After surgical removal of part of liver and pancreas-adult differentiated cells divide and regenerate and a possible role of stem cells remains doubtful. Long-term repopulating hematopoietic stem cells are quiescent in nature but ACD has not been convincingly demonstrated even among them. Attempts by various groups to identify a common stemness program that ensures self-renewal among different kinds of stem cells have also remained futile. Uncontrolled self-renewal and compromised differentiation of stem cells possibly initiate leukemia/cancer, but the identity of leukemic stem cells and whether cancer stem cells arise by epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) in solid tumors are all open-ended questions that need greater clarity. Acceptance of the presence of very small embryonic-like stem cells (VSELs) in adult tissues could clarify several of these existing dilemmas in the field. Data are compiled showing that VSELs undergo ACD in the hematopoietic system, testis, ovary, uterus, and pancreas, whereas tissue-committed progenitors undergo SCD and clonal expansion. VSELs possess similar overlapping stemness program as in embryonic stem cells, embryonic carcinoma cells, embryonic germ cells, induced pluripotent stem cells, and primordial germ cells. VSELs and leukemic and cancer cells express overlapping embryonic markers. Uncontrolled proliferation of VSELs and compromised differentiation possibly initiate leukemia. Process of EMT and initiation of solid tumor from VSELs (located among the epithelial cells) are indeed two distinct and parallel events. To conclude, VSELs provide explanation to several confounding aspects of adult stem cell biology.
adult stem cells; asymmetric cell divisions; cancer stem cells; quiescence; self-renewal; very small embryonic-like stem cells.
