30232187
2018 Nov 12
Plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDCs) are innate immune cells with high antiviral activity triggered by Toll-like receptor 7 (TLR-7) and TLR-9 stimulation. Moreover, they are important mediators between innate and adaptive immunity. Although nowadays there is available an effective therapeutic arsenal against hepatitis C virus (HCV), a protective vaccine is not available. We have analyzed the pDCs' response to HCV infection in a hepatitis C virus (HCV)-Huh7.5 virus-cell system, which allows completion of the virus infectious cycle. pDCs were cocultured following human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) aldrithiol-2 (AT-2 [TLR-7 agonist]) inactivation and CpG (TLR-9 agonist) stimulation. We employed three virus derivatives-wild-type Jc1, interferon (IFN)-resistant virus IR, and high-replicative-fitness virus P100-in order to explore additional IFN-α-related virus inhibition mechanisms. pDCs inhibited HCV infectivity and replication and produced IFN-α. After TLR-7 and TLR-9 stimulation, inhibition of infectivity and IFN-α production by pDCs were enhanced. TLR-7 stimulation drove higher TNF-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) expression in pDCs. Additionally, TLR-7- and TLR-9-stimulated pDCs exhibited a mature phenotype, improving the antigen presentation and lymph node homing-related markers. In conclusion, pDCs could serve as a drug target against HCV in order to improve antiviral activity and as an enhancer of viral immunization.IMPORTANCE We implemented a coculture system of pDCs with HCV-infected hepatoma cell line, Huh7.5. We used three HCV derivatives in order to gain insight into pDCs' behavior against HCV and associated antiviral mechanisms. The results with this cell coculture system support the capacity of pDCs to inhibit HCV replication and infectivity mainly via IFN-α, but also through additional mechanisms associated with pDC maturation. We provided evidence that TLR agonists can enhance antiviral pDCs' function and can induce phenotypic changes that may facilitate the interplay with other immune cells. These findings suggest the possibility of including TLR agonists in the strategies of HCV vaccine development.
HCV; innate immunity; pDCs.
