30430115
2018 Nov 6
Aim:To investigate the relationship between levels of iron metabolism markers and hepatitis B virus (HBV)-related chronic liver diseases.Methods:This case-control study with 318 participants included 78 cases of chronic hepatitis B, 85 cases of HBV-related liver cirrhosis, 77 cases of HBV-related hepatocellular carcinoma, and 78 healthy controls. Markers of iron metabolism were detected in participants. Hematological and biochemical parameters and HBV-DNA were assessed. Child-Pugh grade and Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer stage were determined for each hepatocellular carcinoma patient. Perls' staining was performed on liver sections. The SPSS program was used for all statistical analyses, and statistical significance was considered if a P-value < 0.05.Results:Significantly higher serum ferritin and lower serum hepcidin levels were detected in all groups of HBV-infected patients compared with healthy controls. Serum iron, total iron binding capacity, and serum transferrin levels were significantly lower in patients with cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma, whereas the hepcidin level was higher than that in chronic hepatitis B patients. Correlation analysis indicated that serum hepcidin was negatively correlated with HBV-DNA load (P < 0.01). Serum ferritin and transferrin saturation levels increased proportionally to the extent of liver cirrhosis and poorer Child-Pugh scores (P < 0.05). The decreased serum iron and transferrin saturation levels were significantly correlated with a smaller hepatocellular carcinoma tumor burden according to Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer staging. Liver histology showed a clearly increasing trend in iron deposition in the liver tissues with increased fibrosis, which became prominent at stages 3 (severe liver fibrosis) and 4 (cirrhosis).Conclusion:Iron metabolism disorders occur in patients with HBV-related liver diseases. The serum markers of iron metabolism disorders vary in different stages of HBV-related liver diseases.
Hepatitis B; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Hepcidin; Iron staining; Liver fibrogenesis.
