30482241
2018 Nov 27
Background:Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common type of liver cancer with increasing incidence and poor prognosis. Ubiquitination regulators are reported to play crucial roles in HCC carcinogenesis. UBE2D1, one of family member of E2 ubiquitin conjugating enzyme, mediates the ubiquitination and degradation of tumor suppressor protein p53. However, the expression and functional roles of UBE2D1 in HCC was unknown.Methods:Immunohistochemistry (IHC), western blotting, and real-time PCR were used to detect the protein, transcription and genomic levels of UBE2D1 in HCC tissues with paired nontumor tissues, precancerous lesions and hepatitis liver tissues. Four HCC cell lines and two immortalized hepatic cell lines were used to evaluate the functional roles and underlying mechanisms of UBE2D1 in HCC initiation and progression in vitro and in vivo. The contributors to UBE2D1 genomic amplification were first evaluated by performing a correlation analysis between UBE2D1 genomic levels with clinical data of HCC patients, and then evaluated in HCC and hepatic cell lines.Results:Expression of UBE2D1 was significantly increased in HCC tissues and precancerous lesions and was associated with reduced survival of HCC patients. Upregulation of UBE2D1 promoted HCC growth in vitro and in vivo by decreasing the p53 in ubiquitination-dependent pathway. High expression of UBE2D1 was attributed to the recurrent genomic copy number gain, which was associated with high serum IL-6 level of HCC patients. Further experiments showed that continuous IL-6 activated the DNA damage response and genomic instability by repressing DNA damage checkpoint protein RAD51B. Moreover, continuous IL-6 could significantly facilitate the HCC growth especially with the genomic gain of UBE2D1.Conclusions:Our findings showed that UBE2D1 played a crucial role in HCC progression, and suggested a novel pattern of continuous IL-6 to promote cancers by inducing the genomic alterations of specific oncogenes.
Continuous IL-6; Copy number variations; Hepatocellular carcinoma; RAD51B; UBE2D1.
