30533441
2018 Nov 7
Objective:To evaluate contrast-enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) for monitoring early intrahepatic recurrence of primary hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) after curative treatment.Methods:We prospectively analyzed 97 patients (124 nodules) with primary HCC who underwent hepatic resection or radiofrequency ablation and subsequently experienced intrahepatic recurrence. Patients were assessed with conventional ultrasound and CEUS. They were also assessed with contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CECT) and/or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). The image characteristics of CEUS of recurrent hepatocellular carcinoma and high-grade dysplastic nodules (HGDNs) were analyzed. In addition, the ability of CEUS and CECT/MRI to assess internal artery vascularization in recurrent disease was compared.Results:CEUS of recurrent hepatocellular carcinoma showed hyperenhancement in the arterial phase in 96 of 99 nodules, and it showed hypo- or isoenhancement for portal venous and delayed phases. The most common enhancement patterns were "fast-in and slow-out" and "fast-in and fast-out". Based on the arterial hyperenhancement of lesions and with clinical data such as patient history of HCC and increased level of serum alpha-fetoprotein, the diagnostic accuracy of CEUS for recurrent HCC was significantly higher than that based on the enhancement pattern of "fast-in and fast-out". CEUS of HGDNs showed local or global hyperenhancement during the arterial phase, isoenhancement during the portal venous phase, and isoenhancement or slight hypoenhancement during the delayed phase. The enhancement pattern was "fast-in and slow-out". In some cases, it was difficult to differentiate HGDNs from recurrent disease using CEUS. Vascularization in recurrent disease was significantly higher when assessed by CEUS than when assessed with CECT/MRI (P < 0.05). For detecting recurrent disease, CEUS showed sensitivity of 97.0%, specificity of 68.0%, positive predictive value of 92.3%, and negative predictive value of 85.0%. The corresponding parameters for CECT/MRI were 71.7%, 72.0%, 88.8%, and 39.1%.Conclusion:Intrahepatic recurrent HCC and HGDNs with diameter ≤ 3.0 cm have a characteristic appearance on CEUS. This imaging modality may be effective for monitoring early intrahepatic recurrence after curative treatment of primary HCC.

