25961631
2015 Nov
Purpose:To evaluate the effect of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) coinfection on hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in hepatitis C virus (HCV)-infected patients with cirrhosis in terms of HCC morphologic subtypes and survival prognosis at the time of radiologic diagnosis.Materials and methods:The study was approved by the institutional review board and patients gave their written informed consent. Two databases, one for HIV-HCV patients and the other for HCV-infected patients without HIV infection, were obtained from prospective multicenter cohorts. Inclusion criteria were a confirmed diagnosis of cirrhosis and the discovery of HCC at imaging between January 2008 and December 2012. This study included 35 HIV-HCV patients with cirrhosis (32 men and three women; median age, 50 years [age range, 40-65 years]; Child-Pugh classification A, 21 patients; classification B, 10 patients; classification C, four patients) and 35 infected HCV patients with cirrhosis (29 men and six women; median age, 56 years [age range, 41-83 years]; Child-Pugh classification A, 26 patients; classification B, six patients; classification C, three patients) who were the control group. Computed tomographic or magnetic resonance images were analyzed for HCC subtypes, the number and size of nodules, and evidence of portal obstructing tumors. Fisher exact and Wilcoxon tests were used for comparisons and Kaplan-Meier plots were used for survival analysis.Results:Infiltrative HCC was found in eight HIV-HCV patients with cirrhosis (23%) and in no HCV patients with cirrhosis (P = .002). All other HCCs were of a nodular type, with similar nodule sizes in the two groups. Portal-obstructing tumors were found in 10 HIV-HCV patients (eight of eight tumors were infiltrative and two of 27 tumors were nodular) but none were found in HCV patients (P = .001). Survival was dramatically shorter for HIV-HCV patients than for those with HCV, with a median of 17.2 months versus 54.7 months (P = .004). Survival time was dependent on the type of HCC, with probabilities of death at 12 months of 87% in infiltrative-type HCC, 32% in multiple-nodule type, and 5% in single-nodule type, which was found in both groups (log-rank test, P Conclusion:Unlike HCV-infected patients with cirrhosis, patients with cirrhosis coinfected with HIV and HCV frequently present at radiologic diagnosis with infiltrative-type HCC and portal-obstructing tumors, which results in dramatically shorter survival.

