26130745
2015 Nov
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the common cancers and lethal diseases worldwide. Both oxidative stress and chronic inflammation contribute to the pathogenesis of HCC. Because of limited treatment options and a grave prognosis of HCC, preventive management has been emphasized. The marine macroalgae Ulva lactuca (Ulvaceae) is consumed by humans and livestock because of its nutritional value. Recent studies showed that various extracts of U. lactuca possess antiviral, antiplasmodial, antinephrotoxic, antioxidant, and anti-inflammatory properties. However, very limited information is available on anticancer potential of U. lactuca with no reports on liver cancer chemopreventive efficacy of this marine algae. Accordingly, the present study was initiated to evaluate the possible antihepatocarcinogenic effects and antioxidant mechanisms of action of various U. lactuca extracts against a clinically relevant rodent model of HCC. Initiation of hepatocarcinogenesis was performed in Sprague-Dawley rats by a single injection of dietary carcinogen diethylnitrosamine (DENA, 200 mg/kg, intraperitoneally), followed by promotion with phenobarbital (0.05%) in drinking water. The rats were fed with daily oral dose (50 mg/kg) of polysaccharide sulfate or aqueous extract of U. lactuca for 2, 12, and 24 weeks. At these timepoints, blood samples were taken to measure hepatic injury markers, including alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, alkaline phosphatase, γ-glutamyl transferase, and bilirubin. The liver tissue was harvested for measurement of hepatic oxidative indices, including lipid peroxidation, reduced glutathione, nitric oxide, catalase, superoxide dismutase, glutathione reductase, and glutathione S-transferase. Hepatic histopathology, immunohistochemical analysis of cell proliferation and apoptosis by DNA fragmentation assay were performed. Our results clearly indicate that sulfated polysaccharides of U. lactuca exert a marked chemoprevention of DENA-initiated hepatocarcinogenesis through inhibition of abnormal cell proliferation and induction of apoptosis. A modest inhibition rat liver carcinogenesis was observed with the aqueous extract. The sulfated polysaccharides altered serum parameters of hepatic damage and modulated various components of the hepatic enzymatic and nonenzymatic antioxidant defense systems. The sulfated polysaccharides from U. lactuca may have unique properties of providing protection against DENA-induced oxidative stress which could contribute to chemoprevention of experimental hepatocarcinogenesis. U. lactuca sulfated polysaccharides could be developed as chemopreventive and therapeutic drug against human HCC.
Ulva lactuca; apoptosis; cell proliferation; chemoprevention; diethylnitrosamine; hepatocarcinogenesis; oxidative stress; sulfated polysaccharides.
