26907833
Jul-Aug 2016
Aim:Peritoneal carcinomatosis is a common evolution of neoplasms and the terminal stage of disease. A new therapeutic technique, based on the total surgical removal of peritoneal lesions (peritonectomy procedure - PP) combined with the intraperitoneal chemohyperthermia (IPCH), has been developed. Proper patient selection is mandatory for optimizing the results of treatment. The aim of this study was to investigate the role of [(18)F]fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose Positron Emission Tomography/Computed Tomography ((18)F-FDG PET/CT) in patients with peritoneal carcinosis selected to undergo PP and IPCH. Furthermore, we aimed to identify characteristic patterns of abdominal(18)F-FDG uptake and to correlate these patterns with available anatomic findings after surgery.Methods:Patients with either histologically confirmed peritoneal carcinosis or suspected upon clinical follow-up and/or imaging findings were prospectively submitted to pre-surgery (18)F-FDG PET/CT scan. Only those patients without evidence of extra-peritoneal metastases at PET/CT scan were treated with PP and IPCH.Results:11 patients with peritoneal carcinomatosis (5 colorectal, 4 ovarian, 1 pancreatic) and 1 unknown primitive cancer, were eligible for the study. In all cases PET/CT scan showed multiple peritoneal implants. In 6 out of 11 cases (54%) metastases were evidenced by (18)F-FDG PET/CT: 2 cases with liver metastases; 1 case with bone metastases; 3 patients with lymph-node lesions. Two distinct imaging patterns, with focal or diffuse increased (18)F-FDG uptake, were recognized.Conclusions:PP+IPCH of patients selected by (18)F-FDG PET/CT seems to be safe and feasible. PET/CT scan appears as a reliable tool for the detection, characterization of peritoneal implants with potential impact in the therapeutic management of these patients.
Carcinomatosis peritoneal; Cirugía citorreductora; Cytoreductive surgery; Hyperthermic antiblastic peritoneal perfusion; Intraperitoneal chemohyperthermia; Perfusión hipertérmica antiblástica peritoneal; Peritoneal carcinomatosis; Quimiohipertermia intraperitoneal; Tomografía computarizada/tomografía de emisión de positrones con [(18)F]fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucosa ((18)F-FDG PET/CT); [(18)F]fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose Positron Emission Tomography/Computed Tomography.
