27019559
Jan-Mar 2016
Background:Polygonum multiflorum is well-known as "Heshouwu" in traditional Chinese herbal medicine. In Northeast Asia, it is often used as a tonic to prevent premature aging of the kidney and liver, tendons, and bones and strengthening of the lower back and knees.Objective:To research the anti-inflammatory activities of components from P. multiflorum.Materials and methods:The compounds were isolated by a combination of silica gel and YMC R-18 column chromatography, and their structures were identified by analysis of spectroscopic data (1D, 2D-nuclear magnetic resonance, and mass spectrometry). The anti-inflammatory activities of the isolated compounds 1-15 were evaluated by luciferase reporter gene assays.Results:Fifteen compounds (1-15) were isolated from the roots of P. multiflorum. Compounds 1-5 and 14-15 significantly inhibited tumor necrosis factor-α-induced nuclear factor kappa B-luciferase activity, with IC50 values of 24.16-37.56 μM. Compounds 1-5 also greatly enhanced peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors transcriptional activity with EC50 values of 18.26-31.45 μM.Conclusion:The anthraquinone derivatives were the active components from the roots of P. multiflorum as an inhibitor on inflammation-related factors in human hepatoma cells. Therefore, we suggest that the roots of P. multiflorum can be used to treat natural inflammatory diseases.Summary:This study presented that fifteen compounds (1-15) isolated from the roots of Polygonum multiflrum exert signifiant anti inflmmatory effects by inhibiting TNF α induced NF κB activation and PPARs transcription. Abbreviation used: NF κB: Nuclear factor kappa B, PPARs: Peroxisome proliferator activated receptors, PPREs: Peroxisome proliferator response elements, TNF α: Tumor necrosis factor α, ESI-MS: Electrospray ionization mass spectrometry, HepG2: Human hepatoma cells.
Human hepatoma cells; Polygonaceae; Polygonum multiflorum; nuclear factor kappa B; peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors.
