27609088
Mar-Apr 2017
Background:Cystic echinococcosis is a zoonosis caused by larvae of the parasite Echinococcus that is endemic in many countries of the Mediterranean area. It can affect any organ, with the most common sites being liver (70%) and lung (20%). Splenic hydatid disease, despite being rare, is the third most common location. Other locations such as bone, skin, or kidney are exceptional.Objective:To present our experience in extrahepatic and extrapulmonary hydatidosis.Material and methods:Period: May 2007-December 2014. Health area: 251,000 inhabitants. During that period, a total of 136 patients with hydatid disease were evaluated in our Hepato-pancreatic-biliary Surgery Unit. Extrahepatic and extrapulmonary hydatid disease was found in 18 (13%) patients. A retrospective review was performed on all medical records, laboratory results, serology, diagnostic methods, and therapeutic measurements of all patients. An abdominal ultrasound and CT, as well as hydatid serology was also performed on all patients.Results:The mean age of the patients was 44.5 years, with a range of 33-80 years. Half the patients (50%) had concomitant hepatic echinococcosis. Of the 18 patients with hydatid disease, 13 underwent surgery (radical surgery in 12 cases), and one underwent (endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography)+puncture, aspiration, injection and re-aspiration. The remaining 4did not have surgery due to patient refusal (3), or advanced cancer (1). No recurrences have been observed.Conclusion:The best surgical treatment in these cases is closed total cystectomy to prevent recurrence, except in the spleen where splenectomy is preferred. Conservative techniques are indicated in cases of multiple hydatid disease and in patients with high surgical risk.
Aspiración; Aspiration; Cirugía; Colangiopancreatografía retrógrada endoscópica; Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography; Hidatidosis; Hydatidosis; Hígado; Injection and re-aspiration; Instilación y reaspiración; Liver; Punción; Puncture; Review; Revisión; Surgery.
