27837623
Sept-Oct 2016
Purpose:The main purpose of this study was to demonstrate the anticancer effects of 4-terpineol against Hep-G2 hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cells by evaluating its effect on apoptosis induction, cell migration, DNA fragmentation and cell cycle phase distribution.Methods:MTT assay was used to evaluate the cytotoxic effect of 4-terpineol on Hep-G2 cells, while fluorescence microscopy and flow cytometry were used to study apoptosis induction. Wound healing assay was used to study the effects of 4-terpineol on cell migration, while gel electrophoresis was performed to evaluate the effects on DNA fragmentation. Flow cytometry using propidium iodide (PI) as a probe was used to evaluate the effects on cell cycle arrest. Cells treated with dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO) only served as controls. BALB/c nude mice weighing about 35 g each were used for in vivo studies using 10 and 20 mg/kg of 4-terpineol dose.Results:4-terpineol induced dose-dependent cytotoxicity in Hep-G2 hepatocellular carcinoma cells. Gel electrophoresis indicated that DNA fragmentation was associated with increasing dose of 4-terpineol. It was also observed that a wound scratch in the vehicle-treated control cells was practically entirely closed after 48 hrs of incubation. However, treatment with 0, 25, 50 and 100 μM dose of 4-terpineol resulted in inhibition of wound healing in a dose-dependent manner. The percentage of apoptotic cells increased from 2.5% in the control cells to 10.3, 64.6 and 78.9% in cells treated with 25, 50 and 100 μM of 4-terpineol respectively. 4-terpineol-treated cells exhibited increased percentage of cells in sub-G1 phase of the cell cycle. The in vivo mouse results indicated that 10 and 20 mg/kg of 4-terpineol decreased the tumor weight and tumor volume in a dose-dependent manner.Conclusion:The results of this study showed that 4-terpineol exhibits anticancer effects in Hep-G2 cells by inducing apoptosis, DNA fragmentation, inhibition of cell migration and sub-G1 cell cycle arrest.

