27958619
2016
Background:Unlike other solid tumors (i.e. pancreas, gallbladder, stomach), an ovarian cancer is responsive to a systemic treatment with platinum derivates in 80% of patients. This apparent chemosensitivity justifies a broader surgical approach. A cytoreductive, "tumor-debulking" surgery is defined as an attempt to remove in a maximum degree all visible and detect-able lesions. Despite treatment, the advancement of the disease very often leads to complications defined as "surgical" and life-threatening.Objectives:The aim was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of palliative surgery in advanced ovarian cancer implicating acute surgical diseases of the abdominal cavity.Material and methods:Between years 2005 and 2014 were operated 118 patients with an advanced ovarian cancer (FIGO III-IV) implicating acute and directly life-threatening diseases of the abdominal cavity, involving 132 surgical operations. The causes of these operations were: obstruction of the gastrointestinal tract - 91 patients; perforation of the gastrointestinal tract - 15; gastrointestinal bleeding - 9; intussusceptions - 3.Results:Retrospective data for the 118 patients were analyzed. Safety and the perioperative mortality rate were assessed. Serious postoperative complications were recorded in 31 patients (anastomotic stoma - 9; bleeding requiring repeated surgery -3; recurring gastrointestinal obstruction - 16; liver failure after partial hepatic resection - 3). Systemic compli-cations in the form of respiratory failure and cardiovascular disorders requiring cardiological treatment - 21. All patients required clinical nutrition, both parenteral and enteral. Deaths recorded - 3. 39 patients were rehospitalized within 30 days of surgery. 7 deaths were recorded in this group.Conclusions:Combining lifesaving surgery with cytoreduction allows further adjuvant treatment. Early rehospitalization occurring within less than 30 days is linked to increased mortality.
multivisceral resections; ovarian cancer.
