29201750
Jul-Dec 2016
Hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection is endemic in Bangladesh. Studies have indicated that HBV is the major cause of chronic hepatitis B (CHB), liver cirrhosis (LC), and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in this country. Recently, HBV-related acute on chronic liver failure (HBV-ACLF) has emerged as a serious and emergent medical problem in Bangladesh. To develop a strategy to address HBV-related problems and their influence on health care delivery system, proper understandings about extent of problems and nature of economic burden should be explored. Conservative estimates indicate that about 50 million or more of Bangladeshi have been infected by HBV at some point of their life. Out of the total Bangladeshi population, about 2 to 5% is chronically infected with HBV (about 3-8 million) (1-6%) and considerable number of these patients will eventually develop LC, HCC, or ACLF (about 1 million). Although proper statistics is lacking, it is estimated that HBV-related liver diseases account for a majority of hospital admissions and around 20,000 deaths every year in Bangladesh. In addition, complex clinical features of HBV-related liver diseases have been documented in Bangladesh that show similarity and differences from HBV infection in other Asian countries. Although vaccination against HBV and containment of horizontal transmission are in progress in Bangladesh for reduction of new HBV infection, there is a lack of national strategy for treatment of millions of chronic HBV-infected subjects. This paper will provide an insight regarding the economic impact of HBV in Bangladesh that may act as a primary impetus for developing national HBV eradication program, a goal set by World Health Organization (WHO).How to cite this article:Al Mahtab M, Chaudhury M, Uddin MH, Noor-E-Alam SM, Rahim MA, Alam MA, Moben AL, Khondaker FA, Choudhury MFI, Sarkar MJA, Poddar PK, Foez SA, Akbar SMF. Cost Assessment of Hepatitis B Virus-related Hepatitis in Bangladesh. Euroasian J Hepato-Gastroenterol 2016;6(2):163-166.
Bangladesh; Cost; Hepatitis B virus..
