30568830
Apr-Jun 2016
Introduction:Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) represents a major health concern worldwide; identifying risk factors and associated conditions that may lead to its development are therefore of utmost importance to the medical community. An association between diabetes mellitus (DM) and development of HCC on underlying liver conditions has been previously suggested. The aim of our study is to reveal possible significant statistical correlations between the two entities, which might warrant further study of the pathophysiological mechanisms behind this association.Patients and methods:We have prospectively included consecutive cirrhotic patients admitted to our medical clinic over a period of four years, between 2010 and 2014. Diagnostic was established using the EASL criteria. We have documented history of hyperglycemia and any changes of serum values in these patients, evaluating DM patients within the LC lot. From these patients we have selected all patients with imaging suggestive for HCC and established positive diagnosis on the criteria established in the latest EASL guidelines. We have used statistical tests to identify possible correlations between these pathologies.Results:We have identified 2718 consecutive patients with LC and successfully included 2556. Of these, 164 also had HCC. A total of 371 patients had DM - 54 also had HCC while 317 remained cancer-free through our study period. We found positive correlations between the presence of DM and HCC. Subgroup analysis of the HCC cohort revealed a positive association between DM and liver cirrhosis and chronic hepatitis. We did not find positive relationships between DM and overall liver conditions, splenomegaly, hepatomegaly, other significant symptoms, substance abuse and main serum values.Conclusions:We have found several significant correlations between DM and underlying liver conditions in a HCC cohort. Our study, however, did not reveal other significant associations regarding these diseases. Further studies are required to determine the precise role this disease plays in the development and severity of liver diseases.
chronic viral hepatitis; cirrhosis; diabetes; hepatocellular carcinoma; risk factors.
