24777813
2014 Nov
SLIT, a secretory glycoprotein, and its receptor roundabout (ROBO) are expressed in several types of cancer and have been implicated in tumor angiogenesis. The purpose of this study was to determine the prognostic implications of SLIT and ROBO1 expression and their association with clinicopathologic characteristics in gallbladder cancer. A retrospective analysis of 109 consecutive patients who underwent primary gallbladder cancer resection was conducted. Univariate and multivariate models were used to analyze the effect of clinicopathologic factors on survival. Expression of SLIT and ROBO1 was evaluated by immunohistochemistry, and their association with clinicopathologic characteristics was analyzed using mean testing. Multivariate linear regression analysis was also applied to investigate the independent predictors of ROBO1 expression. Seventy-five patients were included in the post-resection survival analysis, with 1-year and 3-year overall survival rates of 60 and 40 %, respectively. Univariate analysis revealed that pN classification, pT classification, pM classification, liver involvement, perineural invasion, TNM staging, Nevin staging, and microscopic resection margins affect prognosis. Multivariate analysis confirmed that pN classification, liver involvement, and perineural invasion are independent prognostic factors. In the mean tests of 109 cases, the mean difference of SLIT immunoreactivity was significant according to the presence of gallstones (P = 0.003) and liver involvement (P = 0.005), while the mean difference of ROBO1 immunoreactivity was significant according to liver involvement (P < 0.001), TNM staging (P < 0.001), and Nevin staging (P < 0.001). Multivariate analysis of ROBO1 immunoreactivity showed that SLIT immunoreactivity and TNM stage (adjusted R (2) = 0.203) or SLIT immunoreactivity and Nevin stage (adjusted R (2) = 0.195) were independent predictors of ROBO1 expression. pN classification, liver involvement, perineural invasion, and pathologic stage are significant prognostic factors for gallbladder cancer survival. SLIT expression is associated with cholelithiasis and liver involvement, and ROBO1 expression is associated with liver involvement and pathologic stage. In addition, SLIT expression and pathologic stage predict ROBO1 expression independently.

