25859285
2014 Nov 14
Background:Virus-host interactions result in altered gene expression profiles in host cell nuclei and enable virus particle production, thus obligatorily involving changes in their epigenomes. Neither such epigenome changes nor their response to antiviral treatment have been extensively studied to date, although viral infections are known to contribute to the long-term development of severe secondary diseases, for example, hepatocellular carcinoma. This may be causally linked to virus-induced persistent plastic chromatin deformations.Results:We studied whether impaired hepatitis B virus (HBV) replication can lead to the restitution of epigenome signatures hypothesizing that hepatocytes alternatively could adopt a 'memory' state of the infection; that is, the chromatin could persist in a HBV-induced configuration potentially inheritable between dividing hepatocytes. We therefore determined epigenomic signatures and gene expression changes altered by HBV and the effects of suppressed HBV replication in nontransformed hepatocytes of newborn mice. Further we investigated differential histone acetyltransferase and histone deacetylase activities in HBV-negative and HBVpositive hepatocytes, as well as the effects of HBV suppression on gene expression and the chromatin landscape. We show that the expression of several genes and the chromatin landscape become altered upon HBV infection, including global hypoacetylation of H2A.Z and H3K9. Reporter assays monitoring the activities of histone acetyltransferases or histone deacetylases, respectively, suggest that hypoacetylation most probably depends on elevated sirtuin deacetylase activity, but not on class I/II histone deacetylases. Using Micrococcus nuclease to study the chromatin accessibility in met murine-D3 and hepatitis B virus met murine hepatocytes, we demonstrate that the observed differences in H2A.Z/H3K9 acetylation lead to global chromatin structure changes. At all selected sites examined by chromatin immunoprecipitation and quantitative real-time PCR, these effects can be partly restituted via the nucleoside analog reverse transcriptase inhibitor 3TC or using anti-HBV microRNA-like molecules.Conclusions:Increased sirtuin activity might lead to global histone hypoacetylation signatures, which could contribute to the HBV-induced pathomechanism in nontransformed hepatocytes. Using several techniques to suppress HBV replication, we observed restituted gene expression and chromatin signature patterns reminiscent of noninfected hepatocytes. Importantly, ectopic expression of antiviral short-hairpin RNA, but not microRNA-like molecules, provoked intolerable off-target effects on the gene expression level.
CpG signaling; HBV; HCC; histone deacetylation; non-coding RNA; sirtuins.
