29274277
2018 Jul
This study determines whether cullin 4B (CUL4B) promotes pancreatic cancer (PC) metastasis by inducing epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) via the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway. A total of 64 PC patients were enrolled in this study. Human PC cell lines were distributed into blank, negative control, shCUL4B, PLOC, PLOC-CUL4B, and PLOC-CUL4B + siRNA-β-catenin groups. The expressions of CUL4B, Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway-related proteins, and EMT-related proteins were determined using RT-qPCR and Western blotting. The positive expressions of CUL4B and β-catenin protein in tissues were detected by immunohistochemistry. MTT assay and flow cytometry was performed for cell proliferation and cell cycle, scratch test, and transwell assay for cell migration and invasion ability. CUL4B and β-catenin were expressed at a higher level in PC tissues than in paracancerous tissues though paracancerous tissues had higher expressions of CUL4B and β-catenin than normal tissues. The PLOC-CUL4B group showed increased CUL4B, Wnt, β-catenin, LEF-1, c-Jun, Cyclin D1, N-cadherin, Vimentin, Snail, and ZEB1 expression; decreased E-cadherin expression; accelerated cell proliferation; increased S-phase cell percentages; increased cell migration ability; more liver metastases; and enlarged tumor than the PLOC and PLOC-CUL4B + siRNA-β-catenin groups. The shCUL4B group showed decreased CUL4B, Wnt, β-catenin, LEF-1, c-Jun, Cyclin D1, N-cadherin, Vimentin, Snail, and ZEB1 expression; increased E-cadherin expression; decelerated cell proliferation; decreased S-phase cell percentages; reduced cell migration ability; less liver metastases; and decreased tumor weight than the blank and negative control groups. We demonstrate that CUL4B promotes PC metastasis by inducing EMT via the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway. Therefore, CUL4B might be the clinical target for treating PC.
CUL4B; Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway; epithelial-mesenchymal transition; metastasis; pancreatic cancer.
