29700205
2018 Jul
Background:Metastatic castrate-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) patients with liver metastases have a poor prognosis. No large studies have investigated the clinical and biochemical parameters associated with liver metastases in this population.Materials and methods:Patient data made available via Project Data Sphere were collected from 1,281 men with mCRPC who were enrolled on to three phase III clinical trials for the treatment of their disease. Multiple logistic regression was performed on eight clinical and biochemical baseline variables to test their association with the presence of liver metastases on baseline radiographic imaging. Variables of interest included prior docetaxel exposure, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status, albumin, alkaline phosphatase, alanine transaminase, aspartate transaminase (AST), hemoglobin (HGB), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), prostate-specific antigen, and total bilirubin. Final models were compared when treating the variables as either continuous or categorized.Results:Multiple variable analysis demonstrated that an increasing serum AST or LDH or a decreasing HGB was associated with an increased probability of having documented radiographic liver metastases (p < .0001). The area under the curve for the continuous model was 0.6842 and 0.6890 for the categorical one, with the latter model containing a dichotomized AST and LDH based on the upper limit of normal and tertile ranges of HGB based on the distribution of the outcome.Conclusion:Our analysis demonstrated a significant association between the presence of liver metastases and laboratory levels of AST, LDH, and HGB. These have implications for patient management. More research is needed to validate these biomarkers and prospectively determine their application in the clinical setting.Implications for practice:The purpose of this study was to evaluate biochemical and clinical biomarkers associated with the presence of liver metastases in men diagnosed with metastatic castrate-resistant prostate cancer. The results indicate that quantitative assessments of aspartate transaminase, lactate dehydrogenase, and hemoglobin are significantly associated with an increased probability of having documented radiographic liver metastases. Analysis of these simple variables can alert clinicians to those at high risk for prostate cancer that has spread to the liver, a finding of clear importance for clinical management.
Aspartate transaminase; Biomarkers; Lactate dehydrogenase; Liver metastases; Prostate cancer.
