29753296
2018 Jul
Purpose:The purpose of this study was to investigate the current condition of mortality-specific comorbidity among hospitalized patients with epilepsy (PWE).Methods:The discharge abstract records of PWE from over 730,000 admissions were extracted from the hospital medical database. Fourteen mortality-related comorbidities from an epilepsy-specific index (ESI) were selected for the present assessment. The hospital-based prevalence of these comorbidities was estimated. The distributions of PWE with an ESI-based prognostic score were calculated.Results:A cohort of 11,422 PWE (male 58.5%) was included in the present study. The order of comorbidities in terms of high to low prevalence ranking was as follows: hypertension (19.6%), peripheral vascular disease (8.1%), cardiac arrhythmias (5.8%), dementia (4.6%), renal disease (4.1%), congestive heart failure (3.8%), metastatic cancer (3.4%), brain tumor (2.4%), paraplegia and hemiplegia (2.0%), solid tumor without metastasis (1.7%), anoxic brain injury (1.4%), pulmonary circulation disorders (1.3%), moderate or severe liver disease (1.1%), and aspiration pneumonia (0.2%). High rates of comorbidities in the elderly were also noted. Spearman correlation analysis showed a moderate correlation between the changes in ages and prognostic score with a rho of 0.6 (p<0.001). The percentage of females with a score of 0 was higher than that of males (p<0.001), indicating that the prognostic survival of the majority of females was relatively longer than that of males.Conclusion:Our study demonstrated that the comorbidity burden of female PWE was relatively lower than that of male PWE. High prevalence of cardiac and vascular diseases was found in PWE, thereby affecting the long-term survival rate. Considering that the propensity of increased comorbidity was prevalent with age, we should implement early preventive measures to manage the potential comorbidities associated with mortality, reduce disease burden, and prolong the survival of PWE.
Comorbidity; Epilepsy; Mortality; Survival.
