29928426
2018 Jul
The effects of neoadjuvant chemotherapy on the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) values of sevoflurane and desflurane in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) complicated with jaundice were investigated. Eighty patients with HCC complicated with jaundice were selected. Forty patients underwent the neoadjuvant chemotherapy and were grouped into the desflurane group (Group D) and the sevoflurane group (Group S). Patients in all chemotherapy groups received 2 cycles of chemotherapy prior to surgery and underwent surgical treatment 3 weeks after chemotherapy. The remaining 40 patients in the control group were divided into the desflurane group (Group C1) and the sevoflurane group (Group C2). Changes in MAP, HR and BIS at different time points before and after anesthesia induction and skin incision were compared among the groups. Results showed that there were no significant differences in MAP, HR and BIS before anesthesia induction (T0) (P>0.05); at each time point from T1 to T6, MAP, HR and BIS of Group D were significantly lower than those of Group C1 (P>0.05). Furthermore, MAP, HR and BIS of Group S were significantly lower than those of Group C2 (P>0.05). The MACMean of sevoflurane and desflurane were compared among all patient groups using the mean method. MACMean values of Group D were significantly lower than those of Group C1 (P<0.05). Notably, MACDixon values of sevoflurane and desflurane were compared among all patient groups using the Dixon method and the differences were statistically significant (P<0.05). Logistic regression analyses were conducted, respectively, which revealed that the MAC of sevoflurane and desflurane were associated with whether patients received the neoadjuvant chemotherapy. MACLog of sevoflurane and desflurane were decreased in patients receiving the neoadjuvant chemotherapy. The results suggested that neoadjuvant chemotherapy can reduce MAC values of sevoflurane and desflurane in HCC patients complicated with jaundice and may improve these patients' sensitivity to sevoflurane and desflurane.
anesthetic; anti-tumor combined chemotherapy regimen; inhalation; minimum alveolar effective concentration.
