30003446
2018 Jul 13
Background:Radiofrequency ablation (RFA) for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is already fully established worldwide. Needle tract implantation and peritoneal seeding occasionally occur by RFA, and the prognosis of these cases is thought to be poor. In this study, intraoperative real-time near-infrared fluorescence (NIRF) system by indocyanine green (ICG) incidentally detected both needle tract implantation and peritoneal seeding. As the utility of this system for identification of implanted and disseminated lesions after RFA for HCC has not been widely reported, we report a case of successful detection by real-time ICG-NIRF imaging and subsequent resection.Case presentation:A 76-year-old man originally underwent medial sectionectomy for HCC in 2009. When repeated intrahepatic recurrence occurred, he underwent RFA and transcatheter arterial chemoembolization (TACE) for recurrent HCC twice at segment III and once at segment IV. In 2013, the second hepatectomy for recurrent HCC at segment VIII was performed. In 2016, he had recurrent HCC at segment III around a previous RFA and TACE scar; therefore, left lateral sectionectomy was planned. ICG-NIRF system was used to observe a main intrahepatic metastasis at segment III and to search for other tumors in the remnant liver. Although there was no signal on the surface of the remnant liver, tiny signals were observed in the abdominal wall and greater omentum. These tumors were on the needle tract of the previous RFA; both lesions, therefore, were resected. These tumors were pathologically proven to be HCC metastases. The patient has had no recurrence 14 months after the last hepatectomy.Conclusions:ICG-NIRF system might be helpful in the detection of not only intrahepatic lesions but also needle tract implantations or peritoneal seeding. RFA should be avoided in patients with high risk of needle tract implantation and peritoneal seeding.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC); Indocyanine green (ICG); Near-infrared fluorescence (NIRF); Needle tract implantation; Peritoneal seeding; Radiofrequency ablation (RFA).
