29331341
2018 May
Background & aims:There is growing evidence that liver graft ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) is a risk factor for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) recurrence, but the mechanisms involved are unclear. Herein, we tested the hypothesis that mesenteric congestion resulting from portal blood flow interruption induces endotoxin-mediated Toll-like receptor 4 (Tlr4) engagement, resulting in elevated liver cancer burden. We also assessed the role of remote ischemic preconditioning (RIPC) in this context.Methods:C57Bl/6j mice were exposed to standardized models of liver I/R injury and RIPC, induced by occluding the hepatic and femoral blood vessels. HCC was induced by injecting RIL-175 cells into the portal vein. We further evaluated the impact of the gut-liver axis (lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-Tlr4 pathway) in this context by studying mice with enhanced (lipopolysaccharide infusion) or defective (Tlr4-/- mice, gut sterilization, and Tlr4 antagonist) Tlr4 responses.Results:Portal triad clamping provoked upstream mesenteric venous engorgement and increased bacterial translocation, resulting in aggravated tumor burden. RIPC prevented this mechanism by preserving intestinal integrity and reducing bacterial translocation, thereby mitigating HCC recurrence. These observations were linked to the LPS-Tlr4 pathway, as supported by the high and low tumor burden displayed by mice with enhanced or defective Tlr4 responses, respectively.Conclusions:Modulation of the gut-liver axis and the LPS-Tlr4 response by RIPC, gut sterilization, and Tlr4 antagonism represents a potential therapeutic target to prevent I/R lesions, and to alleviate HCC recurrence after liver transplantation and resection.Lay summary:Cancer recurrence can occur after liver resection or liver transplantation for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). This study suggests that intestinal venous congestion, which often occurs during liver surgery, favors the translocation of gut-derived bacterial products in the portal vein, thereby facilitating cancer recurrence by enhancing the signaling of Toll-like receptor 4 in the liver. Using a mouse model of HCC recurrence, we show that strategies that (i) reduce bacterial translocation (by gut decontamination, or by protecting the intestine from venous ischemia damage) or (ii) inhibit Tlr4 signaling in the liver, could reduce cancer recurrence.
Endotoxin; Gut–liver axis; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Ischemia-reperfusion; Liver surgery; Remote ischemic preconditioning; Toll-like receptor 4.
