29540601
2018 May 14
The molecular mechanisms of liver pathology and clinical disease in hepatitis E virus (HEV) infection remain unclear. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are known to modulate viral pathogenesis either by directly altering viral gene expression or by enhancing cellular antiviral responses. Given the importance of microRNA-122 (miR-122) in liver pathobiology, we investigated possible role of miR-122 in HEV infection. In silico predictions using HEV genotype 1 (HEV-1), HEV-2, HEV-3, and HEV-4 sequences showed that the majority of genomes (203/222) harbor at least one miR-122/microRNA-122-3p (miR-122*) target site. Interestingly, HEV-1 genomes showed a highly (97%) conserved miR-122 target site in the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) region (RdRpc). We analyzed the significance of miR-122 target sites in HEV-1/HEV-3 (HEV-1/3) genomes by using a replicon-based cell culture system. HEV infection did not change the basal levels of miR-122 in hepatoma cells. However, transfection of these cells with miR-122 mimics enhanced HEV-1/3 replication and depletion of miR-122 with inhibitors led to suppression of HEV-1/3 replication. Mutant HEV-1 replicons with an altered target RdRpc sequence (CACTCC) showed a drastic decrease in virus replication, whereas introduction of alternative miR-122 target sites in mutant replicons rescued viral replication. There was enrichment of HEV-1 RNA and miR-122 molecules in RNA-induced silencing complexes in HEV-infected cells. Furthermore, pulldown of miR-122 molecules from HEV-infected cells resulted in pulldown of HEV genomic RNA along with miR-122 molecules. These observations indicate that miR-122 facilitates HEV-1 replication, probably via direct interaction with a target site in the viral genome. The positive role of miR-122 in viral replication presents novel opportunities for antiviral therapy and management of hepatitis E.IMPORTANCE Hepatitis E is a problem in both developing and developed countries. HEV infection in most patients follows a self-limited course; however, 20% to 30% mortality is seen in infected pregnant women. HEV superinfections in patients with chronic hepatitis B or hepatitis C virus infections are associated with adverse clinical outcomes, and both conditions warrant therapy. Chronic HEV infections in immunocompromised transplant recipients are known to rapidly progress into cirrhosis. Currently, off-label use of ribavirin (RBV) and polyethylene glycol-interferon (PEG-IFN) as antiviral therapy has shown promising results in both acute and chronic hepatitis E patients; however, the teratogenicity of RBV limits its use during pregnancy, while alpha IFN (IFN-α) increases the risk of transplant rejections. Experimental data determined with genotype 1 virus in the current study show that miR-122 facilitates HEV replication. These observations present novel opportunities for antiviral therapy and management of hepatitis E.
Ago2; hepatitis E virus; interaction; miR-122; target site; virus replication.
