29635899
2018 May
Background:Ciji-Hua'ai-Baosheng Decoction (CHBD) is a traditional Chinese formula that may attenuate the toxicity and side-effects of chemotherapy. The formula may also prolong the life of cancer patients. Whether CHBD should be employed as adjunctive therapy for cancer patients receiving chemotherapy has yet to be determined as does the mechanism whereby CHBD exerts its beneficial effects.Aim of the study:To document the potential effects of CHBD on tumor growth and immune function in a murine model of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) receiving chemotherapy.Materials and methods:Sixty Kunming mice were injected subcutaneously with H22 hepatoma cells in the right anterior armpit. After seven days, the mice with formed tumors were injected with Cytoxan (CTX) (200 mg/kg) to establish the chemotherapy model. These mice were randomly divided into 5 groups: model (untreated controls), control (CTX,33.33 mg/kg), and high CHBD (H) (117 g/kg), moderate CHBD (M) (58.5 g/kg) and low CHBD (L) (29.25 g/kg) treated groups. Tumor weights and inhibitory ratio (decrease in tumor dimensions), histology of tumor, colon, spleen and liver, and biochemical tests of liver and kidney function were documented after 10 days. Serum and tumor IL-2, IFN-γ, IL-6, and TNF-α levels were determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and Western blot respectively. The potential bioactive compounds in CHBD were characterized by UHPLC-MS.Results:Although tumor weights were decreased in CTX alone and CHBD (H) and CHBD (M) groups (-66%, -41% and -25% respectively), tumor cell density was reduced to the greatest extent in the CHBD (H) group. CHBD had no evident effects on liver and kidney function. CTX-induced colon inflammation and decrease in spleen lymphocytes were attenuated with CHBD treatment. CHBD increased serum IL-2, IFN-γ and TNF-α, but decreased IL-6 levels in serum and tumor tissue. UHPLC-MS analysis of CHBD revealed the presence of 11 bioactive compounds.Conclusions:In this murine model of HCC receiving chemotherapy, CHBD inhibited tumor growth, improved immune function and pro-inflammatory cytokine responses while attenuating CTX-associated side effects.
Chemotherapy; Ciji-Hua’ai-Baosheng Decoction; H(22); Hepatocellular carcinoma; Immune function; Interferon-γ; Interleukin-2; Interleukin-6; Tumor necrosis factor-α.
