29691085
2018 May
Objective:Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most lethal human malignancies in China, and the genetic link of hepatocarcinogenesis remains to be defined. Thus, we explored the role of SET and myeloid translocation protein 8, Nervy, and DEAF1 (MYND) domain containing protein 3 (SMYD3) gene polymorphism on risk and prognosis of HCC.Methods:A total of 236 patients with HCC who received treatment in Affiliated Hospital of Jining Medical University for the first time and 230 healthy individuals were enrolled in the study. After DNA extraction for all the subjects, polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was used to amplify and sequence variable numbers of tandem repeat (VNTR) loci of SMYD3 gene. SMYD3 gene was genotyped and its frequency distribution was calculated. Age, education level, income, smoking and drinking history, HCC family history, tumor node metastasis (TNM) staging, maximum tumor diameter, lymph node metastasis (LNM) etc. were investigated. Correlation of SMYD3 gene polymorphism and other risk factors with the occurrence and prognosis of HCC was analyzed.Results:The family history of HCC, drinking history, cirrhosis, and HBV or/and HCV infection, SMYD3 VNTR 3/3 were more frequently observed in subjects with HCC. Patients with SMYD3 VNTR 3/3 genotype, drinking-history, family history of HCC, cirrhosis and hepatitis B virus (HBV), TNM staging, maximum tumor diameter, LNM were more vulnerable to HCC. Besides, patients with SMYD3 VNTR 3/3 genotype had lower 2- and 3-year survival rate. The COX regression analysis revealed that drinking history, family history of HCC, SMYD3 VNTR 3/3 genotype, TNM staging, and LNM were all related to the prognosis of HCC.Conclusion:This study indicates that drinking history, family history of HCC and SMYD3 VNTR 3/3, TNM staging, maximum tumor diameter, LNM might be risk factors for HCC, and SMYD3 VNTR 3/3 might contribute to a lower 2- and 3-year survival rate of patients with HCC.
Cirrhosis; Drinking history; Family history of hepatocellular carcinoma; Hepatitis B virus; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Polymorphism; Risk factors; SMYD3 gene.
