29731904
2018 May
Previous studies have revealed that the peritumoral environment has a profound influence on tumor initiation and progression. Zinc-binding protein-89 (ZBP-89) has been observed to be involved with tumor development, recurrence, and metastasis. High intratumoral expression of ZBP-89 has been associated with improved prognosis in several tumor types. However, the prognostic values of peritumoral expression of ZBP-89 remain to be elucidated in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) following curative resection. In the present study, peritumoral ZBP-89 expression was examined using immunohistochemistry in 102 HCC patients who had received curative hepatectomy. Expression of ZBP-89 protein was positive in 66.3% of the peritumoral samples from 102 HCC patients. HCC patients with high peritumoral ZBP-89 expression exhibited significantly shorter disease-free survival (DFS) times (P=0.012) than those patients with low peritumoral ZBP-89 expression. Additionally, high ZBP-89 expression in peritumoral HCC tissue was positively associated with the presence of liver cirrhosis. Univariate and multivariate Cox proportional hazard regression analyses demonstrated that albumin levels ≤35 g/l, multiple tumors, tumor sizes ≥5 cm, and macroscopic vascular invasion may serve as independent prognostic factors for overall survival (OS) [hazard ratio (HR)=2.031; P=0.014] in patients with HCC. The multivariate Cox regression model identified that high ZBP-89 expression, multiple tumors and macroscopic vascular invasion were independent prognostic factors for shorter DFS durations. High expression of ZBP-89 in peritumoral HCC tissues was associated with a shorter DFS in HCC patients following curative hepatectomy. Additionally, high ZBP-89 expression in peritumoral HCC tissue was positively associated with the presence of liver cirrhosis in HCC patients, indicating that cirrhosis accompanied by high ZBP-89 expression may be a contributing factor to the poor prognosis of patients with HCC. Therefore, peritumoral ZBP-89 expression may be a good prognostic marker to predict DFS time in HCC patients following curative hepatectomy and may provide novel insights into the molecular mechanisms of HCC initiation.
ZBP-89; hepatocellular carcinoma; peritumoral; prognosis.
