29776391
2018 May 18
Background:Efforts have been made to classify Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC) at surgically curable stages because molecular classification, which is prognostically informative, can accurately identify patients in need of additional early therapeutic interventions. Recently, HCC classification based French studies on the expression of 16 genes and 5 genes were proposed. In 16-gene classification, transcriptomic signatures (G1-G6) were used to classify HCC patients into clinical, genomic and pathway-specific subgroups. In 5-gene score classification, the good or poor prognosis of HCC patients was predicted. The patient's cohort in these studies was mainly from Caucasian and African populations. Here, we aimed to validate G1-G6 and 5-gene score signatures in 205 Korean HCC patients since genomic profiles of Korean patients are distinct from other regions.Methods:Integrated analyses using whole-exome sequencing, copy number variation and clinical data was performed against these two signatures to find statistical correlations. Kaplan-Meier, univariate and multivariate COX regression analysis were performed for Disease-Specific Survival (DSS) and Recurrence-Free Survival (RFS).Results:The G2 and G3 subgroups of transcriptomic signature were significantly associated with TP53 mutations while G5 and G6 subgroups were significantly associated with CTNNB1 mutations which is in concordance with original French studies. Similarly, the poor prognosis group of 5-gene score showed shorter DSS (p = 0.045) and early RFS (p = 0.023) as well as a significant association with microvascular invasion, tumor size (> 5 cm), elevated AFP levels, and RB1 mutations. However, the 5-gene score was not an independent prognostic factor for survival.Conclusion:The G1-G6 and 5-gene signatures showed significant concordance between genetic profiles of Korean HCC patients and patients in original French studies. Thus, G1-G6 and 5-gene score signatures can be targeted as potential therapeutic biomarkers against HCC patients worldwide.
5-gene score; G1-G6 subgroups; Prognosis; Survival.
