28842296
2017 Dec
Background & aims:Antiviral therapy for the treatment of hepatitis C (HCV) infection has proved to be safe and efficacious in patients with cirrhosis awaiting liver transplantation (LT). However, the information regarding the clinical impact of viral eradication in patients on the waiting list is still limited. The aim of the study was to investigate the probability of delisting in patients who underwent antiviral therapy, and the clinical outcomes of these delisted patients.Methods:Observational, multicenter and retrospective analysis was carried out on prospectively collected data from patients positive for HCV, treated with an interferon-free regimen, while awaiting LT in 18 hospitals in Spain.Results:In total, 238 patients were enrolled in the study. The indication for LT was decompensated cirrhosis (with or without hepatocellular carcinoma [HCC]) in 171 (72%) patients, and HCC in 67 (28%) patients. Sustained virologic response (SVR) rate was significantly higher in patients with compensated cirrhosis and HCC (92% vs. 83% in patients with decompensated cirrhosis with or without HCC, p=0.042). Among 122 patients with decompensated cirrhosis without HCC, 29 (24%) were delisted due to improvement. No patient with baseline MELD score >20 was delisted. After delisting (median follow-up of 88weeks), three patients had clinical decompensations and three had de novo HCC. Only two of the patients with HCC had to be re-admitted onto the waiting list. The remaining 23 patients remained stable, with no indication for LT.Conclusions:Antiviral therapy is safe and efficacious in patients awaiting LT. A quarter of patients with decompensated cirrhosis can be delisted asa result of clinical improvement, which appears to be remain stable in most patients. Thus, delisting is a safe strategy that could spare organs and benefit other patients with a more urgent need.Lay summary:Antiviral therapy in patients awaiting liver transplantation is safe and efficacious. Viral eradication allows removal from the waiting list of a quarter of treated patients. Delisting because of clinical improvement is a safe strategy that can spare organs for patients in urgent need.
Delisting; Direct-acting antivirals; Hepatitis C; Liver transplantation; Waiting list.
