28843624
2017 Dec
Background:Sorafenib is a multi-kinase inhibitor for treating advanced hepatocellular and renal cell carcinomas by targeting various types of receptors and signaling molecules, including vascular endothelial growth factor receptors, platelet-derived growth factor receptor, and Raf-1. Sorafenib may cause diverse cutaneous adverse reactions, including hand-foot reaction, facial and scalp eruptions, alopecia and pruritus. However, the mechanism of these adverse effects has not been well-investigated.Objective:Mast cells (MCs) are reported to be associated with various types of skin diseases. To investigate the mechanism of sorafenib-induced cutaneous adverse effects, we focused on MCs in situ.Methods:We evaluated skin samples of organ cultured normal human skin treated with sorafenib using c-Kit, tryptase, and stem cell factor (SCF), Ki-67, and TUNEL immunohistochemistry as well as quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction to evaluate MC number, degranulation, proliferation, and apoptosis in situ.Results:Sorafenib significantly increased the number and degranulation of skin-type MCs compared with the vehicle-treated control group in situ. However, sorafenib did not affect MC proliferation and apoptosis, suggesting that it stimulated MC maturation from resident precursors. Furthermore, sorafenib increased SCF expression in situ. The increase in MC number by sorafenib was abrogated by co-administration of SCF neutralizing antibody or the phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) inhibitor, wortmannin, but not the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) kinase (MEK) inhibitor, PD98059. This suggests that SCF is involved in sorafenib-induced MC maturation. In addition, the compensatory upregulation of PI3K-signaling from inhibition of MAPK signaling by sorafenib might stimulate MC maturation in situ. We also evaluated MCs within the skin samples from patients with drug eruptions by sorafenib administration. The total and degranuated MCs number as well as SCF expression was significantly increased compared to healthy individuals.Conclusion:Our results contribute to a better understanding of the mechanism by which sorafenib induces adverse cutaneous reactions via activation of skin-type MC degranulation and maturation. This activation appears to be related to PI3K signaling and SCF production, which could be a new targets for treating sorafenib-induced adverse reactions.
Adverse reaction; Itch; Mast cell; PI3K; Sorafenib; Stem cell factor.
