29198012
2017 Dec 2
Background:Cholangiolocellular carcinoma (CoCC) is a rare liver tumor arising from the canals of Hering found between the cholangioles and interlobular bile ducts. Although morphologically CoCC mimics intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (ICC), CoCC exhibits a unique intermediate biologic behavior between hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and ICC. Curative resection is required for prolonged survival in patients with CoCC. However, effective therapy for postoperative hepatic recurrence has not yet been standardized.Case presentation:A 40-year-old man had an asymptomatic liver mass found during a regular medical examination. Contrast-enhanced computed tomography revealed a well-enhanced mass, 15 cm in diameter, in the right liver. He underwent right hemihepatectomy at a local hospital under the preoperative diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma. Pathologic examination confirmed a moderately differentiated tubular adenocarcinoma, leading to a diagnosis of ordinary ICC. Twelve months after surgery, he was referred to our hospital due to three hepatic recurrences in the left medial segment. He underwent partial hepatectomy for the recurrence, followed by adjuvant chemotherapy using gemcitabine alone. After the second hepatectomy, hepatic recurrences developed an additional seven times. The numbers and sizes of the recurrent tumors were very limited at each recurrence, satisfying the standard criteria for percutaneous radiofrequency ablation (RFA) for the treatment of HCC. All lesions were treated by percutaneous RFA, although this was an exceptional approach for ICC. He is now alive without evidence of disease 9.2 years after the first hepatectomy. Because his clinical outcome was satisfactory and not compatible with the typical negative outcomes of ordinary ICC, we re-reviewed the histological findings of his tumor. The tumor was composed of small gland-forming cells proliferating in an anastomosing pattern; the cell membrane was strongly immunoreactive for epithelial membrane antigen. These findings were in accordance with the typical features of CoCC, revising his final diagnosis from ICC to CoCC.Conclusions:This case report demonstrates a satisfactory outcome using repeated local treatments, such as hepatectomy and RFA, for hepatic recurrences of CoCC, suggesting that a localized treatment approach can be considered to be a therapeutic option. We should be careful in making a definitive diagnosis of ICC and ruling out CoCC because the diagnosis potentially dictates the treatment strategy for recurrences.
Cholangiolocellular carcinoma; Intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma; Intrahepatic recurrence; Radiofrequency ablation.
