29207960
2017 Dec 6
Background:Lymphocyte Function-Associated Antigen-1 (LFA-1; CD18/CD11a) is one of the main adhesion molecules used by immune cells to infiltrate the liver under inflammatory conditions. Recently, the expression of this integrin has also been reported on several solid tumors, including colorectal cancer. However, its functional role in the metastatic progression to the liver remains unknown. Using in vitro assays and an experimental orthotopic in vivo model of liver metastasis, we aimed to elucidate the role of tumor LFA-1 in the metastatic progression by means of the partial depletion of the β2 subunit of LFA-1, required for integrin activation, firm adhesion and signaling.Methods:To do so, we evaluated the effects of β2 reduction on the murine colon carcinoma C26 cell line on their pro-metastatic features in vitro and their metastatic potential in vivo in a mouse model of colon carcinoma metastasis to the liver.Results:The reduction in β2 integrin expression correlated with a slower proliferation, and a reduced adhesion and migration of C26 cells in an in vitro setting. Additionally, tumor cells with a reduced in β2 integrin expression were unable to activate the liver sinusoidal endothelial cells (LSECs). This resulted in a recovery of the cytotoxic potential of liver lymphocytes which is compromised by LSECs activated by C26 cells. This was related to the abrogation of RNA expression of inflammatory and angiogenic cytokines by C26 cells after their activation with sICAM-1, the main ligand of β2αL. Furthermore, in vivo tumor cell retention and metastasis were profoundly reduced, along with a decrease in the recruitment and infiltration of myeloid derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) and lymphocytes to the liver.Conclusion:Taken together, our findings uncovered the modulatory role for the tumor β2 subunit of the LFA-1 integrin in the metastatic progression of colorectal cancer to the liver by impairing activation of liver endothelium and thus, the local immune response in the liver. Besides, this integrin also showed to be critical in vivo for tumor cell retention, cytokine release, leukocyte recruitment and metastasis development. These data support a therapeutical potential of the integrin LFA-1 as a target for the treatment of colorectal liver metastasis.
Colorectal cancer; Endothelial cells; ICAM-1; Immune response; LFA-1; Liver metastasis; Tumor microenvironment; β2 integrin.
