29237473
2017 Dec 13
Background:Aging is characterized by increases in inflammation and oxidative stress, conditions that are exacerbated by environmental factors such as diet. In this study, we investigated the effects of a trans-fatty acid (TFA) diet on the liver in adult (25 wk) and old (60 wk) senescence-accelerated mice (SAMP8 strain) of both sexes. Our goal was to assess the effects of the diet on protein markers of inflammation and oxidative stress in the liver.Methods:Male and female mice were placed on life-long diets containing similar amounts of total fat (17%), with differing amounts of TFA: 2% (moderate TFA group) or 0.2% of total energy from TFA (control diet group). At the indicated ages, livers were harvested and evaluated for markers of inflammation and oxidative stress, as well as for enzymes of fat metabolism via immunoblotting. Relative densities of protein bands were determined and compared via a three-factor ANOVA.Results:Compared to males, females demonstrated significantly lower inflammatory protein expression (ICAM-1, MCP-1, COX-2), along with lower expression of the DNA damage marker, Gadd153, and the oxidative stress marker, HO-1. Female mice demonstrated higher expression of antioxidant enzymes (SOD-1, SOD-2, and Ref-1) and lipogenic enzymes (FASN, ACLY) compared to male mice. While HO-1 was elevated in the female mice fed the TFA diet compared to controls, the diet did not affect other markers of oxidative stress or inflammation. However, the diet was associated with significant increases in FASN and ACLY in adult (25 wk) male mice.Conclusions:Our results suggest sexually dimorphic protein expression in the liver, with female mice demonstrating lower inflammation and increased oxidative stress defenses. Additionally, considering that FASN and ACLY contribute to hepatic lipogenesis, our results suggest a potential mechanism for the dyslipidemia in adult male mice that is associated with TFA diets.
ATP citrate lyase; Fatty acid synthase; Inflammation; MCP-1; Oxidative stress.
