29263668
2017 Dec 13
Purpose:Polymeric micelles are attractive nanocarriers for tumor-targeted delivery of paclitaxel (PTX). High antitumor efficacy and low toxicity require that PTX mainly accumulated in tumors with little drug exposure to normal tissues. However, many PTX-loaded micelle formulations suffer from low stability, fast drug release, and lack of tumor-targeting capability in the circulation. To overcome these challenges, we developed a micellar formulation that consists of sodium cholate (NaC) and monomethoxy poly (ethylene glycol)-block-poly (d,l-lactide) (mPEG-PDLLA).Methods:PTX-loaded NaC-mPEG-PDLLA micelles (PTX-CMs) and PTX-loaded mPEG-PDLLA micelles (PTX-Ms) were formulated, and their characteristics, particle size, surface morphology, release behavior in vitro, pharmacokinetics and in vivo biodistributions were researched. In vitro and in vivo tumor inhibition effects were systematically investigated. Furthermore, the hemolysis and acute toxicity of PTX-CMs were also evaluated.Results:The size of PTX-CMs was 53.61±0.75 nm and the ζ-potential was -19.73±0.68 mV. PTX was released much slower from PTX-CMs than PTX-Ms in vitro. Compared with PTX-Ms, the cellular uptake of PTX-CMs was significantly reduced in macrophages and significantly increased in human cancer cells, and therefore, PTX-CMs showed strong growth inhibitory effects on human cancer cells. In vivo, the plasma AUC0-t of PTX-CMs was 1.8-fold higher than that of PTX-Ms, and 5.2-fold higher than that of Taxol. The biodistribution study indicated that more PTX-CMs were accumulated in tumor than PTX-Ms and Taxol. Furthermore, the significant antitumor efficacy of PTX-CMs was observed in mice bearing BEL-7402 hepatocellular carcinoma and A549 lung carcinoma. Results from drug safety assessment studies including acute toxicity and hemolysis test revealed that the PTX-CMs were safe for in vivo applications.Conclusion:These results strongly revealed that NaC-mPEG-PDLLA micelles can tumor-target delivery of PTX and enhance drug penetration in tumor, suggesting that NaC-mPEG-PDLLA micelles are promising nanocarrier systems for anticancer drugs delivery.
enhanced; polymeric micelles; sodium cholate; tumor-targeting delivery.
