29286012
2017 Dec 1
Viral hepatitis is the most common cause of serious health problems such as liver cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Leading to immunodeficiency disorders through different mechanisms, Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) causes the development of severe secondary infections. Hepatitis A (HAV) is thought to spread by the faecal-oral route, while Hepatitis B (HBV), Hepatitis C (HCV) and HIV are mostly transmitted vertically during childhood. In our study, we aimed to determine the seroprevalence of HAV, HBV, HCV and HIV among Syrian refugee children who were admitted to outpatient clinics. We conducted a retrospective review of data concerning 171 Syrian children aged between 0-18 years admitted between April 2014 and December 2015 to the outpatient infectious disease clinic of ?zmir Tepecik Training and Research Hospital and the social welfare outpatient clinic for Syrian refugees for reasons other than jaundice. Serum samples from patients were studied for HAV antibody IgG (anti-HAV IgG), HBV surface antigen (HBsAg), antibodies against HBV surface antigen (anti-HBs), antibodies against HBV core antigen (anti-HBc total), HCV antibody (anti-HCV) (anti-HIV) with the ELISA (Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay) method. In this study 51% of patients were female, with a mean age of 6.52 years among all patients. Six of the 140 patients (4.2%) scanned for HBV among the patients enrolled in the study were HBsAg and anti-HBc total positive and anti-HBs negative. Three patients (2.1%) were HBsAg negative, and anti-HBc total and anti-HBs positive, which indicated they had previously recovered from an HBV infection. HBsAg, anti-HBs, anti-HBc total data for 140 patients (81.9%), anti-HCV data for 109 patients (63.8%), anti-HIV data for 88 patients (51.5%) and HAV IgG data for 86 patients (50.3%) were obtained. Due to migration from regions in Syria where there is no regular follow-up of HBV vaccination in children, HBsAg seroprevalence of refugee children is thought to be higher than in other children in Turkey and anti-HBs positivity is thought to be lower. We expected to see a higher seroprevalence of anti-HCV and anti-HIV in Syria due to the lack of health facilities such as non-regular anti-HCV and anti-HIV screening before blood transfusions and during pregnancy in all regions of Syria. Yet in this study, the anti-HCV, anti-HIV seroprevalence of Syrian refugee children was similar to that in Turkey. According to the results, if the children of asylum seekers are admitted to the national HAV and HBV vaccination schedule, hepatitis infections and their complications may be prevented.

