29291777
2017 Dec 15
Clear cell hepatocellular carcinoma (CCHCC) has hitherto been considered an uncommon, highly differentiated variant of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) with a relatively favorable prognosis. CCHCC is composed of mixtures of clear and/or acidophilic ground glass hepatocytes with excessive glycogen and/or fat and shares histology, clinical features and etiology with common HCCs. Studies in animal models of chemical, hormonal and viral hepatocarcinogenesis and observations in patients with chronic liver diseases prone to develop HCC have shown that the majority of HCCs are preceded by, or associated with, focal or diffuse excessive storage of glycogen (glycogenosis) which later may be replaced by fat (lipidosis/steatosis). In ground glass cells, the glycogenosis is accompanied by proliferation of the smooth endoplasmic reticulum, which is closely related to glycogen particles and frequently harbors the hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg). From the findings in animal models a sequence of changes has been established, commencing with preneoplastic glycogenotic liver lesions, often containing ground glass cells, and progressing to glycogen-poor neoplasms via various intermediate stages, including glycogenotic/lipidotic clear cell foci, clear cell hepatocellular adenomas (CCHCA) rich in glycogen and/or fat, and CCHCC. A similar process seems to take place in humans, with clear cells frequently persisting in CCHCC and steatohepatitic HCC, which presumably represent intermediate stages in the development rather than particular variants of HCC. During the progression of the preneoplastic lesions, the clear and ground glass cells transform into cells characteristic of common HCC. The sequential cellular changes are associated with metabolic aberrations, which start with an activation of the insulin signaling cascade resulting in pre-neoplastic hepatic glycogenosis. The molecular and metabolic changes underlying the glycogenosis/lipidosis are apparently responsible for the dramatic metabolic shift from gluconeogenesis to the pentose phosphate pathway and Warburg-type glycolysis, which provide precursors and energy for an ever increasing cell proliferation during progression.
clear cell hepatocellular carcinoma; glycogenosis; lipidosis; metabolic aberrations; phenotypic heterogeneity; preneoplastic glycogenosis; progression.
