29378384
2017 Dec
The new recommendations reflect the increase in knowledge that has been reported since the release of previous Czech guidelines in September 2014. The basis for these guidelines were the European Association for the Study of the Liver guidelines from April 2017. According to qualified estimates, there are 240 million people with chronic hepatitis B (HBV) infection worldwide. The Czech Republic is among the countries with a low prevalence of HBV infection. According to the latest seroprevalence study, 0.56 % of the Czech citizens were chronically infected with HBV in 2001. A similar study conducted in only two regions of the Czech Republic in 2013 showed a prevalence of only 0.064 %. HBV infection can lead to serious life-threatening liver damage - fulminant hepatitis, liver cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). The main goals of treatment are to prolong the length of life and improve its quality by preventing the progression of chronic hepatitis to cirrhosis, cirrhosis decompensation and development of HCC. The goals may be achieved if HBV replication is suppressed in a sustained manner. Additional goals are prevention of vertical transmission from mother to newborn, inhibition of HBV reactivation and therapy of HBV-related extrahepatic manifestations. Generally, there are two different strategies of chronic hepatitis B therapy available - treatment with nucleoside or nucleotide inhibitors (NIs) or with pegylated interferon alfa. Currently, the vast majority of Czech and European patients are treated with NIs. The NIs that have been approved for HBV treatment in the European Union include lamivudine, adefovir dipivoxil, entecavir (ETV), telbivudin (TBV), tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF) and tenofovir alafenamide (TAF). TAF and TBV have not yet been marketed in the Czech Republic. The main advantages of treatment with potent NIs with a high barrier to resistance (ETV, TDF, TAF) are their predictable high long-term antiviral efficacy leading to undetectable HBV DNA levels in the vast majority of compliant patients as well as their favorable safety profiles. These drugs can be used in any HBV infected patient and represent the only treatment option for patients with decompensated liver cirrhosis, liver transplants, extrahepatic HBV-related manifestations, severe acute hepatitis B or chronic HBV reactivation.

