30284022
2019 Jun
Background:Retracting the lateral liver segment during laparoscopic distal gastrectomy is important for achieving an optimal surgical field. However, excessive force may injure the liver, causing temporary abnormalities of liver function tests after laparoscopic surgery. We developed a new liver retraction method and assessed its safety and utility.Patients and methods:We retrospectively analyzed records in our surgical database of consecutive surgical patients who underwent laparoscopic distal gastrectomy for early gastric cancer. We divided the 229 patients into two groups based on the liver retraction method used, either flexible liver retraction with clipping and suturing (FLICS) or the Nathanson retractor (NR). One-to-one propensity score matching was performed to match patients, resulting in the records of 53 pairs of cases extracted from the database. Operative and postoperative outcomes were assessed, including following the values of serum liver enzymes, total bilirubin, and C-reactive protein until postoperative day 30.Results:There were no significant differences in patient characteristics or preoperative data in the two groups. The retraction method was not changed intraoperatively for any patients. The operative time was significantly shorter in the FLICS group, but the amount of bleeding did not differ. Liver injury was not observed as a result of liver retraction during surgery. In both groups, serum liver enzymes temporarily increased after surgery but improved rapidly thereafter. The postoperative increases in aspartate transaminase, alanine transaminase, and C-reactive protein levels were significantly lower in the FLICS than in the NR group. No serious complications associated with liver retraction were observed in either group.Conclusions:Our new liver retraction technique provided an optimal surgical field without inducing liver dysfunction. It is a simple, safe, and effective liver retraction technique.
Gastric cancer; Internal organ retractor; Laparoscopic gastrectomy; Liver retraction; Nathanson’s retractor; Propensity score-matched analysis.
