30635820
2019 Jun
Studies have shown that long noncoding RNA Zinc finger E-box-binding homeobox 2 antisense RNA 1 (ZEB2-AS1) is involved in the progression of lung cancer, bladder cancer, and hepatocellular carcinoma. However, its role in the pathogenesis of gastric cancer remains unknown. The Wnt/β-catenin pathway contributes to the development of gastric cancer. ZEB2-AS1 expression was firstly detected in the gastric carcinoma tissue samples as well as in gastric cancer cells. Knockdown of ZEB2-AS1 was performed by ZEB2-AS1-shRNA, and the viability, migration, invasion, and apoptosis of gastric cancer cells were determined by CCK-8, scratch assay, transwell, and flow cytometry, respectively. Furthermore, levels of Ki-67, PCNA, VEGF, MMP9, epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) markers (E-cadherin, Vimentin and ZEB2), cleaved caspase 3/8/9 and PARP, active β-catenin, c-Myc, cyclinD1, and AXIN2 were assayed by Western blot or real-time PCR. Additionally, the role and mechanism of ZEB2-AS1 were confirmed in a xenograft nude mouse model. We found ZEB2-AS1 expression was increased in gastric carcinoma samples, and it was correlated with tumor progression. Also, its expression was elevated in gastric cancer cells. Knockdown of ZEB2-AS1 reduced the proliferation, migration, invasion, and EMT, but increased the apoptosis of gastric carcinoma cells. Furthermore, ZEB2-AS1 downregulation remarkably suppressed the expression of Ki-67, PCNA, VEGF and MMP9, and the activation of Wnt/β-catenin signaling, whereas elevated the levels of cleaved caspase 3/8/9 and PARP in gastric cancer cells. And ZEB2 overexpression reversed the effects of ZEB2-AS1 downregulation on the proliferation, EMT and inactivation of Wnt/β-catenin signaling. Additionally, ZEB2-AS1 knockdown inhibited tumor growth, Ki-67 staining, and the expression of VEGF, MMP9, active β-catenin, c-Myc, cyclinD1, and AXIN2 in mice. In conclusion, ZEB2-AS1 promotes the tumorigenesis of gastric carcinoma that is related to the upregulation of ZEB2 and the activation of the Wnt/β-catenin pathway.
Gastric cancer; Long noncoding RNAs; Wnt/β-catenin; ZEB2; ZEB2-AS1.
