30876945
2019 Jun
Background & aims:Microvascular invasion (MVI) impairs surgical outcomes in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). As there is no single highly reliable factor to preoperatively predict MVI, we developed a computational approach integrating large-scale clinical and imaging modalities, especially radiomic features from contrast-enhanced CT, to predict MVI and clinical outcomes in patients with HCC.Methods:In total, 495 surgically resected patients were retrospectively included. MVI-related radiomic scores (R-scores) were built from 7,260 radiomic features in 6 target volumes. Six R-scores, 15 clinical factors, and 12 radiographic scores were integrated into a predictive model, the radiographic-radiomic (RR) model, with multivariate logistic regression.Results:Radiomics related to tumor size and intratumoral heterogeneity were the top-ranked MVI predicting features. The related R-scores showed significant differences according to MVI status (p Conclusions:The computational approach, integrating large-scale clinico-radiologic and radiomic features, demonstrates good performance for predicting MVI and clinical outcomes. However, radiomics with current CT imaging analysis protocols do not provide statistically significant added value to radiographic scores.Lay summary:The most effective treatment for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is surgical removal of the tumor but often recurrence occurs, partly due to the presence of microvascular invasion (MVI). Lacking a single highly reliable factor able to preoperatively predict MVI, we developed a computational approach to predict MVI and the long-term clinical outcome of patients with HCC. In particular, the added value of radiomics, a newly emerging form of radiography, was comprehensively investigated. This computational method can enhance the communication with the patient about the likely success of the treatment and guide clinical management, with the aim of finding drugs that reduce the risk of recurrence.
Clinical outcome; HCC; Liver imaging score; Microvascular invasion; Radiomics.
