30951844
2019 Jun 28
Ethnopharmacological relevance:Hordeum vulgare (L.), commonly known as barley belonging to Poaceae family is a widely used cereal. Barley seeds are considered to possess high nutritional value and antioxidant properties. The grass of barley is also considered as a part of health drink in many parts of India. It is claimed to suppress a number of health disorders including obesity, diabetes, circulatory disorders, arthritis, anemia, excessive cholesterol levels, renal difficulties, and cancer. However, the antiobesity potential of barley grass has not been explored till now.Aim of the study:The aim of the present study was to characterize and evaluate the anti-obesity activity of barley grass juice (Hordeum vulgare L.) in high fat diet induced model.Materials and methods:Barley grass juice was characterized by GC-MS analysis for identifying the active phytochemical constituents and was subjected to standard in vitro antioxidant studies. For in vivo studies, obesity was induced by high fat diet model in adult male Wistar rats. Atorvastatin (10 mg/kg) was used as the standard and barley grass juice was administered at two dose levels (200 and 400 mg/kg) for a period of 60 days. Anthropometric parameters, lipid profile and liver function markers were screened at regular intervals in all the treatment groups. At the end of the study, histopathological evaluations of liver and carotid artery were performed. The levels of in vivo antioxidant enzymes like SOD, catalase, reduced glutathione and lipid peroxidation in terms of malondialdehyde were also estimated in the liver homogenates. Expression levels of PPAR-gamma and caspase 3 were determined in the liver.Results:Results indicated that barley grass juice (Hordeum vulgare L.) exhibited potent in vitro antioxidant activity. Rats administered with high fat diet for 60 days showed a significant increase in body weight, BMI, altered lipid profile, liver function markers like AST, ALT, ALP and increased expression of PPAR-gamma and caspase 3. However, administration of barley grass juice for 60 days, profoundly decreased the bodyweight, BMI, improved lipid profile and liver function markers. This was supported by the decreased expression of PPAR-gamma and caspase 3 in liver. Histopathological variations observed in liver and carotid artery of high fat diet group, when treated with BJG showed preserved hepatocytes and reduced atherosclerosis. GC-MS analysis identified the presence of 12 phytochemical constituents in barley grass juice.Conclusion:Our study demonstrates the antiobesity activity of barley grass juice and it may be concluded that barley grass juice can be an effective nutraceutical in the management of obesity.
Anti-obesity; Barley grass juice; Caspase 3; High fat diet; Hordeum vulgare; PPAR-Gamma.
