30972979
2019 Jun
Aim:Epidermal growth factor-containing fibulin-like extracellular matrix protein 1(EFEMP1) has been found to be involved in the occurrence and development of many cancers. The relationship between EFEMP1 and the development of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and the molecular mechanism are not fully understood.Methods:Real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and tissue microarray were used to detect the expression of EFEMP1 in HCC cell lines and tissue. Methylation-specific PCR assay was used to measure the methylation level of EFEMP1 in HCC cell lines and tissue. To study the function of EFEMP1 on cell function, Huh7 and HepG2 were infected with lentiviral particles expressing EFEMP1. MTT assay and colony formation assay were used to examine the effect of EFEMP1 on cell proliferation. Annexin-VAPC/7-AAD double were used to detect the effect of EFEMP1 on cell apoptosis. To further detect the effect of EFEMP1 on the development of HCC in vivo, we performed the tumor formation experiment in nude mice. Gene chip was used to detect the expression profile of Huh7 and HepG2 overexpressing EFEMP1. To further screen out the differences, GO analysis and pathway analysis were performed. To study the effects of SEMA3B, specific siRNA was used to inhibit the expression of SEMA3B. Chi-squared test and rank sum test were used to analyze the relationship between EFEMP1 expression and HCC clinical characteristic.Results:The study found that the expression of EFEMP1 was significantly decreased in HCC cell lines and HCC tissues. The expression level of EFEMP1 was related to the TNM (the extent of the tumor, the extent of spread to the lymph nodes, the presence of metastasis) stage and the prognosis of patients with HCC. The decrease of protein expression suggested that the patient prognosis was worse, and the protein level of EFEMP1 may be an independent factor in the prognosis of HCC patients. Promoter methylation may be one of the reasons for EFEMP1 inhibition. EFEMP1 could inhibit the proliferation of HCC cells and promoted the apoptosis of HCC cells to regulate the development of HCC. And EFEMP1 promoted the apoptosis of HCC cells mainly through the mitochondrial apoptosis pathway. EFEMP1 may inhibit the proliferation of HCC cells through the SEMA3B gene in the Axon guidance pathway.Conclusion:In summary, our research revealed the regulation of EFEMP1 on cell proliferation and apoptosis in HCC. EFEMP1 may suppress the growth of HCC cells by promoting SEMA3B.
Hepatocellular carcinoma; apoptosis; epidermal growth factor-containing fibulin-like extracellular matrix protein 1; proliferation.
