31073398
2019 Jun
Background:Over 325 million people in the world are infected with hepatitis B or C virus. Chronic hepatitis is responsible for 78% of cases of hepatocellular carcinoma and an estimated 1.3 million preventable deaths a year. As "silent killers", liver diseases are often asymptomatic and go undiagnosed until their terminal stage. Knowledge of infection status via screening is thus a vital part of preventing spread and seeking early treatment. Recently there has been a worldwide push to eliminate hepatitis. The objective of this study is to assess hepatitis B and C self-reported awareness of infection status vs correct awareness (compared to blood test results) and follow-up rates in Taiwan to inform global health promotion efforts that utilize screening interventions to prevent chronic liver diseases.Methods:De-identified data from a Liver Foundation's nationwide community-outreach free blood screening programs was utilized, including 50 909 participants' data from 74 sites with a questionnaire (demographics, screening history, hepatitis awareness, monitoring behavior) and blood test results. Chi square tests were applied using R programing to examine the impacts of demographic variables on infection prevalence, awareness, and behavior relating to hepatitis.Results:Among all participants, 41.1% indicated having had a hepatitis screening, of which only 60.8% knew their results. Around 69.7% and 66.5% self-reported awareness of their hepatitis B and C status respectively; 12.8% and 26.4% of individuals who tested positive for HBsAg and Anti-HCV respectively incorrectly thought they were not infected. Of those who self-reported awareness of their positive infection, 43.4% and 26.6% did not follow up with a health care professional for monitoring or treatment; the top reasons were "no symptoms", "too busy", and "don't know where to follow up". Rural populations showed higher infection prevalence but lower screening rates and self-reported awareness.Conclusions:Intervention programs must address the substantial number of people that do not recall if they were screened or do not know the results of a screening. Discrepancies between self-reported awareness, correct awareness, and follow-up and disparities across demographic groups deserve further scrutiny. Global hepatitis eradication initiatives should reconsider how screening, test results, and education are presented in order to improve awareness and prevent chronic infection that could develop into life-threatening liver diseases.

