31170980
2019 Jun 6
Background:Our previous report suggested that centrosomal P4.1-associated protein (CPAP) is required for Hepatitis B virus (HBV) encoded non-structure protein X (HBx)-mediated nuclear factor kappa light chain enhancer of activated B cells (NF-κB) activation. CPAP is overexpressed in HBV-associated hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC); however, the interaction between CPAP and HBx in HBV-HCC remains unclear.Methods:The mRNA expression of CPAP and HBx was analyzed by quantitative-PCR (Q-PCR). NF-κB transcriptional activity and CPAP promoter activity were determined using a reporter assay in Huh7 and Hep3B cells. Immunoprecipitation (IP) and in situ proximal ligation assay (PLA) were performed to detect the interaction between CPAP and HBx. Chromatin-IP was used to detect the association of cAMP response element binding protein (CREB) and HBx with the CPAP promoter. Cell proliferation was measured using cell counting kit CCK-8, Bromodeoxyuridine (5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine, BrdU) incorporation, and clonogenic assays. The tumorigenic effects of CPAP were determined using xenograft animal models.Results:HBx can transcriptionally up-regulate CPAP via interacting with CREB. Overexpressed CPAP directly interacted with HBx to promote HBx-mediated cell proliferation and migration; SUMO modification of CPAP was involved in interacting with HBx. Knocked-down expression of CPAP decreased the HBx-mediated tumorigenic effects, including cytokines secretion. Interestingly, overexpressed CPAP maintained the HBx protein stability in an NF-κB-dependent manner; and the expression levels of CPAP and HBx were positively correlated with the activation status of NF-κB in HCC. Increased expression of CPAP and CREB mRNAs existed in the high-risk group with a lower survival rate in HBV-HCC.Conclusion:The interaction between CPAP and HBx can provide a microenvironment to facilitate HCC development via enhancing NF-κB activation, inflammatory cytokine production, and cancer malignancies. This study not only sheds light on the role of CPAP in HBV-associated HCC, but also provides CPAP as a potential target for blocking the hyper-activated NF-κB in HCC.
CPAP; HBx; Hepatocarcinogenesis; Inflammation; NF-κB.
