31186768
2019 Jun
Programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1) is an essential immune checkpoint protein implicated in immune evasion by malignant tumors. Overexpression of programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) and its ligand PD-L1 is associated with poor prognosis in various types of cancer. Recently, multiple advances have occurred in the area of cancer immunotherapy. Inhibiting the ligation of PD-1 by PD-L1 has been the major focus of anti-tumor immunotherapy. In diagnostic pathology, it has become crucial to detect PD-L1+ tumor cases using a validated immunohistochemistry (IHC) approach. Preliminary data demonstrate that C-MET promotes survival of some (e.g., renal) cancer types through regulation of PD-L1. However, C-MET expression, and its association with PD-L1, has not been well-characterized in the context of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), and no anti-HCC immunotherapy is currently available in Korea. Therefore, it is crucial to investigate the expression of C-MET and PD-L1, and their association with clinicopathologic factors, to facilitate the development of targeted treatments for HCC. PD-L1 expression was examined in tumor cells (TC) and immune cells (IC) of 70 patient-derived HCC specimens using IHC. Two anti-PD-L1 monoclonal antibodies (MAbs), SP263 and SP142, were utilized. Additionally, TC C-MET expression was assessed. Correlations between PD-L1 expression (as identified by both MAbs), C-MET expression and clinicopathologic factors were assessed. More PD-L1+ cases were identified via SP263 than via SP142 when assessing both TC and IC; in the former group, SP236 identified 14/70 positive cases, while SP142 identified only 2/70. In the latter group, SP236 identified 49/70 positive cases, while SP142 identified 30/70. Both MAbs demonstrated a higher frequency of PD-L1 expression by IC than TC. The Edmondson-Steiner grade statistically correlated with a higher frequency of SP236-detected TC PD-L1 expression. C-MET was significantly associated with advanced tumor size and was positively correlated with SP263-detected PD-L1 expression in TC. These results suggest that C-MET may serve a role in regulating PD-L1 expression in HCC. Furthermore, while SP263 generally exhibited a higher sensitivity for PD-L1 detection, concordance in PD-L1+ case detection between the two different MAbs was generally good. These background data may be helpful in the development of targeted anti-HCC immunotherapy focused on PD-L1 or C-MET, and in evaluating selection criteria for target populations best suited to such treatments.
C-MET; hepatocellular carcinoma; immunohistochemistry; immunotherapy; programmed cell death ligand 1.
