31208440
2019 Jun 17
Background:Manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) upregulating FoxM1 have previously been demonstrated promoting lung cancer stemness. Isovitexin exhibits antitumor activities in various cancers. This study aimed to assess whether isovitexin inhibits hepatic carcinoma stem-like cells (HCSLCs) features via regulating MnSOD and FoxM1 expression.Methods:Second-generation spheres from the hepatic carcinoma cell lines, respectively, were used as HCSLCs. Protein amounts of MnSOD, FoxM1 and stemness-associated markers (CD133, CD44, ALDH1, Bmi1, Nanog and Oct4) were determined by immunoblotting. In vitro carcinogenicity was evaluated by sphere- and colony-formation assays. The effects of isovitexin on HCSLC carcinogenicity and stemness were examined in vitro and in xenograft models. An adenoviral delivery system was employed to manipulate MnSOD and/or FoxM1. Luciferase reporter assay was performed to verify isovitexin downregulated FoxM1 by inhibiting MnSOD-mediated effects of E2F1 and/or Sp1 on activation of FoxM1 promoter.Results:FoxM1 upregulation by MnSOD contributed to carcinogenicity and stemness, with increased sphere- and colony-formation capabilities, upregulated stemness-associated markers and CD133+ subpopulation as well as elevated oncogenicity in vivo in HCSLCs compared with hepatic carcinoma cells. Isovitexin substantially decreased sphere and colony formation rates, and stemness-associated markers in cultured HCSLCs by suppressing MnSOD and FoxM1 expression. Importantly, isovitexin significantly inhibited tumor growth of in nude mice bearing HCSLCs and reduced CD133 protein expression of xenograft in nude mice. MnSOD or FoxM1 knockdown enhanced the effects of isovitexin suppression on carcinogenicity and stemness in HCSLC. MnSOD or FoxM1 overexpression attenuated the effects of isovitexin. Additionally, isovitexin and MnSOD knockdown could inhibit FoxM1 reporter activity via a decreased binding of E2F1 and/or Sp1 onto FoxM1 promoter. FoxM1 overexpression reversed the effects of isovitexin combined with MnSOD knockdown, without affecting MnSOD expression. Moreover, MnSOD knockdown plus thiostrepton, a FoxM1 specific inhibitor, cooperated with isovitexin to repress xenograft tumor growth and downregulate MnSOD and FoxM1 in nude mice bearing HCSLCs from MHCC97H cells.Conclusions:Isovitexin inhibits carcinogenicity and stemness in HCSLCs by downregulating FoxM1via inhibition of MnSOD.
Cancer stem cells; FoxM1; Hepatic carcinoma; Isovitexin; MnSOD.
