24146196
2014 Feb
Background:Gastric cancer is one of the most common cancers. Unfortunately, it is often diagnosed at the advanced stage International Union Against Cancer stage IV. This induced us to carry out an interdisciplinary analysis of this patient group with the Department of Internal Medicine 1. Our aim was to discuss cancers classified initially as unresectable in a meeting of the interdisciplinary tumor board after palliative chemotherapy, and to refer selected patients for surgery after establishing resectability. The outcome of the chemotherapy, operation method, complication rate, and long-term survival were analyzed.Methods:From 1999 to 2008, 76 patients with metastatic gastric cancer or carcinoma of the esophagogastric junction were discussed by the interdisciplinary tumor board of the University of Erlangen and classified initially as unresectable. The patients then received palliative chemotherapy according to the AIO regimen (weekly high-dose 5-fluorouracil/folinic acid [FU/FA] in a 24 h infusion), plus irinotecan. If the tumor was subsequently classified as resectable, the patient underwent either gastric resection or gastrectomy with DII-III dissection. Metastases were resected depending on their location (liver). Peritoneal carcinomatosis was treated additionally by HIPEC. Statistical analysis was with SPSSS version 20.Results:Surgical and general complications and hospital mortality were acceptable. There were no cases of anastomotic leak, but one patient died of fulminant pneumonia. The R0 resection rate was 69 %, and four patients had long-term survival of more than 60 months. There were significant survival advantages.Conclusions:Metastatic gastric cancer or carcinoma of the esophagogastric junction can become resectable after downsizing the tumor with palliative chemotherapy. Long-term survival is achieved in some cases. Therefore, every patient with this type of cancer should be discussed by the interdisciplinary tumour board after palliative chemotherapy to provide him with a chance of cure after re-evaluation.

