24247203
2014 Feb
Many patients with metastatic breast cancer (MBC) have been treated previously with taxanes and/or anthracyclines, which renders reinduction of anthracyclines in the palliative setting impossible because of the high cardiotoxicity of these drugs. Pegylated liposomal doxorubicin represents a means of reinducing anthracyclines without increasing cardiotoxicity. The aim of this retrospective study was to evaluate the efficacy and toxicity of Caelyx in patients with MBC. Patients with histologically confirmed MBC were eligible for this retrospective study if they had received palliative chemotherapy with pegylated liposomal doxorubicin between 1 January 2002 and 31 December 2006 at the Department for Gynecology and Obstetrics at the University of Heidelberg (Germany). The main endpoints were time to progression, overall survival, and safety of the treatment with pegylated liposomal doxorubicin. In all, 141 patients were included in this retrospective trial. The median age of the patients was 54 years (range 24-84 years). Of the patients, 43% had received five to six previous chemotherapy regimens before pegylated liposomal doxorubicin was recommended. In 33% of patients, more than three organs were involved. The most commonly involved organs were bones, liver, and lungs; 37 patients had received three or at least six cycles of Caelyx. During the treatment with pegylated liposomal doxorubicin, left ventricular ejection function was not reduced by more than 15%. The major effects (grade 4) were hematological toxicity (anemia, leukopenia, and thrombocytopenia), hand-foot syndrome, and stomatitis. In nine patients, the dose was reduced and in three patients chemotherapy with Caelyx was stopped owing to hematological toxicity. In 20 patients, the dose was reduced and in nine patients chemotherapy was stopped owing to nonhematological toxicity. The median time to disease progression was 6.5 months; the overall median survival was 13 months after the first course of pegylated liposomal doxorubicin was initiated. This retrospective study confirmed the efficacy and good tolerability of pegylated liposomal doxorubicin in patients with MBC who had been treated previously with anthracycline. A dosage of 40 mg/m² body surface every 4 weeks is equally effective with less toxicity.

