24291001
2014 Feb
Purpose:To compare outcomes of transarterial chemoembolization with degradable starch microspheres (DSMs) and conventional transarterial chemoembolization with doxorubicin and Ethiodol in patients with unresectable intermediate-stage hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).Materials and methods:A total of 69 patients underwent 169 chemoembolization procedures with Ethiodol (n = 35) or DSMs (n = 34) as the embolic agent. The same chemotherapeutic agent was used for all patients (50 mg doxorubicin). The primary endpoint was patient survival, and secondary endpoints were local tumor response and incidence of therapy-associated complications with conventional or DSM chemoembolization. Tumor response was evaluated by consensus reading by two radiologists in accordance with modified Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors. Mean survival was calculated according to Kaplan-Meier analysis, and differences in survival curves were assessed by univariate log-rank test. The statistical significance of quantitative variables was determined by parameter-free Wilcoxon-Mann-Whitney U test.Results:The study groups were similar with regard to demographic data and disease stage. For the DSM chemoembolization group, the objective response rate (ie, complete or partial response) was 44.1%, and the rate of stable disease was 38.2%. The respective rates for the conventional chemoembolization group were 48.6% and 31.4%. Mean survival (P = .337) and complications did not significantly differ between groups (P = .907; P = 1.000).Conclusions:DSM chemoembolization represents an alternative method of HCC treatment with a safety profile similar to that of conventional transarterial chemoembolization. Regarding local tumor response and overall survival, results of DSM chemoembolization were similar to those of conventional chemoembolization.
ALT; AST; BCLC; Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer; DSM; HCC; alanine aminotransferase; aspartate aminotransferase; degradable starch microsphere; hepatocellular carcinoma; mRECIST; modified Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors.
