26063428
2015 Sep
The infectivity of hepadnavirus virions produced during either acute or chronic stages of infection was compared by testing the ability of the virions of woodchuck hepatitis virus (WHV) to induce productive acute infection in naive adult woodchucks. Serum WHV collected during acute infection was compared to virions harvested from WHV-infected woodchucks during either (i) early chronic infection, when WHV-induced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) was not yet developed, or (ii) late chronic infection, when established HCC was terminal. All tested types of WHV inoculum were related, because they were collected from woodchucks that originally were infected with standardized WHV7 inoculum. Despite the individual differences between animals, the kinetics of accumulation of serum relaxed circular DNA of WHV demonstrated that the virions produced during early or late chronic infection are fully capable of inducing productive acute infection with long-lasting high viremia. These findings were further supported by the analysis of such intrahepatic markers of WHV infection as replicative intermediate DNA, covalently closed circular DNA, pregenomic RNA, and the percentage of WHV core antigen-positive hepatocytes measured at several time points over the course of 17.5 weeks after the inoculation. In addition, the observed relationship between the production of antibodies against WHV surface antigens and parameters of WHV infection appears to be complex. Taken together, the generated data suggest that in vivo hepadnavirus virions produced during different phases of chronic infection did not demonstrate any considerable deficiencies in infectivity compared to that of virions generated during the acute phase of infection.Importance:The generated data suggest that infectivity of virions produced during the early or late stages of chronic hepadnavirus infection is not compromised. Our novel results provided several lines of further evidence supporting the idea that during the state of chronic infection in vivo, the limitations of hepadnavirus cell-to-cell spread/superinfection (observed recently in the woodchuck model) are not due to the diminished infectivity of the virions circulating in the blood and likely are (i) related to the properties of hepatocytes (i.e., their capacity to support hepadnavirus infection/replication) and (ii) influenced by the immune system. The obtained results further extend the understanding of the mechanisms regulating the persistence of hepadnavirus infection. Follow-up studies that will further investigate hepadnavirus cell-to-cell spread as a potential regulator of the chronic state of the infection are warranted.

