23707354
2013 Nov
Background & aims:The Veterans Health Administration (VHA) is the largest single provider of care for hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection in the United States. We analyzed the cost effectiveness of treatment with the HCV protease inhibitors boceprevir and telaprevir in a defined managed care population of 102,851 patients with untreated chronic genotype 1 infection.Methods:We used a decision-analytic Markov model to examine 4 strategies: standard dual-therapy with pegylated interferon-alfa and ribavirin (PR), the combination of boceprevir and PR triple therapy, the combination of telaprevir and PR, or no antiviral treatment. A sensitivity analysis was performed. Sources of data included published rates of disease progression, the census bureau, and VHA pharmacy and hospitalization cost databases.Results:The estimated costs for treating each patient were $8000 for PR, $31,300 for boceprevir and PR, and $41,700 for telaprevir and PR. Assuming VHA treatment rates of 22% and optimal rates of sustained virologic response, PR, boceprevir and PR, and telaprevir and PR would reduce relative liver-related deaths by 5.2%, 10.9%, and 11.5%, respectively. Increasing treatment rates to 50% would reduce liver-related deaths by 12%, 24.7%, and 26.1%, respectively. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratios were $29,184/quality-adjusted life-years for boceprevir and PR and $44,247/quality-adjusted life-years for telaprevir and PR vs only PR. With the current 22% treatment rate, total system-wide costs to adopt boceprevir and PR or telaprevir and PR would range from $708 to $943 million.Conclusions:Despite substantial up-front costs of treating HCV-infected patients in the VHA with PR, or telaprevir and PR, each regimen improves quality of life and extends life expectancy by reducing liver-related morbidity and mortality, and should be cost effective. Further efforts to expand access to direct-acting antiviral therapy are warranted.
Cirrhosis; DAA; HCC; HCV; Health Care Costs; ICER; IL; Liver Disease; PR; Prevention; QALY; SVR; VHA; Veterans Health Administration; boc; boceprevir; direct-acting antiviral; hepatitis C virus; hepatocellular carcinoma; incremental cost-effectiveness ratio; interleukin; pegylated interferon-alfa and ribavirin; quality-adjusted life-year; sustained virologic response; tel; telaprevir.
