23972638
2013 Nov
Background:Hepatic artery pseudoaneurysm (HAP) is found in 1-2% of liver transplantation (LT) patients. The mortality associated with pseudoaneurysm formation after orthotopic LT is reported to be as high as 75%. Because of the rarity of complications, particularly when considered individually, much of the direction for the management of complications is anecdotal. This article discusses the presentation, etiology, types, treatment indications, and vascular procedures used to manage complications with LT.Methods:Between January 2004 and December 2011, 464 LTs were performed at our institution. Of these, 9 (1.9%) consecutive patients underwent surgical treatment of HAP (8 men and 1 woman; median age, 58.4 years [range, 46-67 years]). Four patients underwent transarterial chemoembolization before LT for hepatocellular carcinoma. In all cases, revascularization with a reversed autologous saphenous vein bypass was performed.Results:Four patients had ruptured pseudoaneurysms, and the others were diagnosed as having asymptomatic pseudoaneurysms during the follow-up period. The median delay between LT and the diagnosis of HAP was 39.6 days (range, 22-92 days). All were anatomically extrahepatic. The median diameter was 15.3 mm (range, 9-30 mm). Four patients had a T-tube. In 6 cases, biliary leakage was associated with the LT and, in the remaining 3, mycosis was recorded. After surgery, 1 patient underwent retransplantation because of ischemic cholangitis. Five years later, 5 patients had normal arterial anatomy, and the other 3 patients had stenosis that was successfully treated by stents. All of the patients had normal liver function at follow-up. One patient died 16 months later because of a heart attack.Conclusions:HAP with massive intraperitoneal bleeding is a rare but serious life-threatening complication when it occurs after LT. The majority of HAP cases are associated with bile leakage and mycosis; therefore, surgery must be the treatment of choice. Our conclusions support surgical revascularization with reversed saphenous grafts as a feasible and efficient treatment in cases of HAP.

