28939963
2018 Jun
Purpose:To validate a free-breathing dynamic contrast-enhanced-MRI (DCE-MRI) in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) patients using gadoxetic acid, and to determine the relationship between DCE-MRI parameters and histological results.Methods:Thirty-four HCC patients were included in this prospective study. Free-breathing DCE-MRI data was acquired preoperatively on a 3.0 Tesla scanner. Perfusion parameters (K trans, K ep, V e and the semi-quantitative parameter of initial area under the gadolinium concentration-time curve, iAUC) were calculated and compared with tumor enhancement at contrast-enhanced CT. The relationship between DCE-MRI parameters and Ki67 indices, histological grades and microvascular density (MVD) was determined by correlation analysis. Differences of perfusion parameters between different histopathological groups were compared. Receiver operation characteristic (ROC) analysis of discriminating high-grades (grade III and IV) from low-grades (grade I and II) HCC was performed for perfusion parameters.Results:Significant relationship was found between DCE-MRI and CT results. The DCE-MRI derived K trans were significantly negatively correlated with Ki-67 indices (rho = - 0.408, P = 0.017) and the histological grades (rho = - 0.444, P = 0.009) of HCC, and K ep and V e were significantly related with tumor MVD (rho = - 0.405, P = 0.017 for K ep; and rho = 0.385, P = 0.024 for V e). K trans, K ep, and iAUC demonstrated moderate diagnostic performance (iAUC = 0.78, 0.77 and 0.80, respectively) for discriminating high-grades from low-grades HCC without significant differences.Conclusions:The DCE-MRI derived parameters demonstrated weak but significant correlations with tumor proliferation status, histological grades or microvascular density, respectively. This free-breathing DCE-MRI is technically feasible and offers a potential avenue toward non-invasive evaluation of HCC malignancy.
Dynamic contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Histological grade; Ki-67 proliferation; Microvascular density.
