29110217
2018 Jun
Purpose:Prognosis of synchronous hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) patients with pulmonary metastasis (PM) was poor, while aggressive intrahepatic therapies remained controversial. This study aimed to investigate the significance of aggressive intrahepatic therapies for synchronous PM-HCC.Methods:Synchronous PM-HCC patients were retrospectively enrolled from Sun Yat-sen Memorial Hospital of Sun Yat-sen University during January 2000 and December 2015. Univariate and multivariate analysis were performed to investigate the prognostic factors. Patients were grouped according to different HCC treatment modalities including liver resection (LR), ablation, transarterial chemoembolization (TACE), systemic therapy (ST, systemic chemotherapy or sorafenib) and supportive care (SC). Case control studies were achieved using propensity score matching (PSM) analysis to further investigate the significance of LR, ablation and TACE.Results:Eighty-one patients were enrolled, and the median overall survival (OS) was 4.5 months. Serum alpha fetal protein (AFP) ≥ 400 ng/ml, multiple HCC lesions and no intrahepatic therapies (LR/Ablation/TACE) were inferior independent prognostic factors. Patients were divided into LR group (n = 9), Ablation/TACE group (n = 24) and ST/SC group (n = 48). After PSM analysis, survival outcome was superior in LR group compared to Ablation/TACE group (19.6 vs. 6.9 months) (p = 0.023) or ST/SC group (19.6 vs. 2.8 months) (p = 0.034), while no significant difference was found between -Ablation/TACE and ST/SC group (5.1 vs. 3.2 months) (p = 0.338).Conclusions:Prognosis of synchronous PM-HCC patients was poor. Serum AFP ≥ 400 ng/ml, multiple HCC lesions and no aggressive intrahepatic therapies were inferior prognostic factors. LR might provide survival benefits in well-selected patients, while the significance of ablation or TACE remained to be further investigated.
Ablation; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Liver resection; Pulmonary metastasis; Transarterial chemoembolization.
