29446053
2018 Jun
Tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) are targeted therapies rapidly becoming favored over conventional cytotoxic chemotherapeutics. Our study investigates two FDA approved TKIs, DASATINIB; indicated for IMATINIB-refractory chronic myeloid leukemia, and SORAFENIB; indicated for hepatocellular carcinoma and advanced renal cell carcinoma. Limited but crucial evidence suggests that these agents can have cardiotoxic side effects ranging from hypertension to heart failure. A greater understanding of the underlying mechanisms of this cardiotoxicity are needed as concerns grow and the capacity to anticipate them is lacking. The objective of this study was to explore the mitochondrial-mediated cardiotoxic mechanisms of the two selected TKIs. This was achieved experimentally using immortalized human cardiomyocytes, AC16 cells, to investigate dose- and time-dependent cell killing, along with measurements of temporal changes in key signaling proteins involved in the intrinsic apoptotic and autophagy pathways upon exposure to these agents. Quantitative systems pharmacology (QSP) models were developed to capture the toxicological response in AC16 cells using protein dynamic data. The developed QSP models captured well all the various trends in protein signaling and cellular responses with good precision on the parameter estimates, and were successfully qualified using external data sets. An interplay between the apoptotic and autophagic pathways was identified to play a major role in determining toxicity associated with the investigated TKIs. The established modeling platform showed utility in elucidating the mechanisms of cardiotoxicity of SORAFENIB and DASATINIB. It may be useful for other small molecule targeted therapies demonstrating cardiac toxicities, and may aid in informing alternate dosing strategies to alleviate cardiotoxicity associated with these therapies.
Cardiotoxicity; DASATINIB; Quantitative systems pharmacology (QSP) models; SORAFENIB; Tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs).
