29452293
2018 Jun
Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) is one of the most genetically diverse bacterial pathogens that persistently colonizes the human gastric epithelium. This remarkable genomic plasticity may act as a driving force for successful adaptation and persistence of the bacteria in the harsh gastric environment. Outer inflammatory protein A (OipA) encoded by oipA gene (HP0638/hopH) is a member of the outer membrane proteins (OMPs) of H. pylori involved in induction of IL-8 secretion and is associated with development of peptic ulcer and gastric cancer. Expression of OipA is regulated by phase variation within a CT dinucleotide repeat motif of the oipA gene. In this study we carried out direct DNA sequence analysis of 53 amplified fragments to investigate the oipA "On/Off" status among Iranian H. pylori isolates from patients with various gastric diseases. The prevalence of cagL, cagA, EPIYA motifs, vacA alleles, babA2 and sabA genotypes as well as cagPAI integrity of the isolates were determined by PCR. Our results demonstrated a high prevalence of strains with functional oipA status (79%) and significant associations were found between functional oipA and cagA (P = 0.027) and vacA s1m1 (P = 0.022) genotypes. The vacA s1m2 genotype was also found to be statistically associated with PUD (P = 0.0001). Interestingly, we showed that H. pylori strains with intact cagPAI co-expressed oipA gene in a significant synergistic relationship (P < 0.01). However, no significant association was observed between the functional oipA status and clinical outcomes (P > 0.05). In conclusion, our findings denotes great diversity in the number and pattern of CT dinucleotide repeats of oipA among Iranian H. pylori strains. The synergistic link between functional oipA and other important virulence factors is proposed to be critical in the pathogenesis of H. pylori, which needs further studies with a larger number of samples.
EPIYA motif; Helicobacter pylori; Virulence genotypes; cagPAI integrity; oipA.
