29569093
2018 Jun
Purpose of review:The approval of direct-acting antiviral (DAA) therapy has revolutionized hepatitis C virus (HCV) treatment. However, the publication of a study from Barcelona in 2016 raised concern for an increased risk of recurrence of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) after potentially curative therapy in patients receiving DAAs. This article reviews the current literature on the interaction between HCC and hepatitis C eradication with DAAs.Recent findings:Following publication of the initial observation in 2016, a number of studies have looked at the impact of active HCC on the success of antiviral therapy, as well as that of treatment with DAAs on both the occurrence and recurrence of HCC. The presence of active HCC decreases sustained virologic response (SVR) rates with DAAs. However, SVR rates improve in patients who have achieved complete radiological response or are treated post transplantation. With respect to occurrence of HCC after DAAs, many small single-center studies without a control group have documented high incidence. The rates are also higher when compared to those of historical controls treated with interferon, but these patients are not comparable because DAA-treated population is more likely to have advanced fibrosis or decompensation. In large studies that have included a control group (patients treated concurrently who did not achieve SVR), a decrease in the occurrence of HCC has been demonstrated. With regard to recurrence of HCC, while smaller single-center studies have shown an increase, larger studies with control group have not replicated those findings. However, methodological limitations in the published studies limit our ability to make a firm conclusion on both the occurrence and recurrence of HCC after DAA therapy. The presence of active HCC decreases treatment success rates with DAAs. Therefore, it is recommended that treatment of HCV in patients with HCC be deferred till there is complete radiological response. Though there are major limitations with the currently published studies, the data does not support an increase in the occurrence or recurrence of HCC after DAA therapy.
Direct-acting antiviral; HCV treatment; Hepatitis C virus; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Liver cancer.
