29669827
2018 Jun 13
Hepatitis C virus (HCV) replication and assembly occur at the specialized site of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) membranes and lipid droplets (LDs), respectively. Recently, several host proteins have been shown to be involved in HCV replication and assembly. In the present study, we demonstrated the important relationship among osteopontin (OPN), the ER, and LDs. OPN is a secreted phosphoprotein, and overexpression of OPN in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) tissue can lead to invasion and metastasis. OPN expression is also enhanced in HCV-associated HCC. Our recent studies have demonstrated the induction, proteolytic cleavage, and secretion of OPN in response to HCV infection. We also defined the critical role of secreted OPN in human hepatoma cell migration and invasion through binding to receptors integrin αVβ3 and CD44. However, the role of HCV-induced OPN in the HCV life cycle has not been elucidated. In this study, we showed a significant reduction in HCV replication, assembly, and infectivity in HCV-infected cells transfected with small interfering RNA (siRNA) against OPN, αVβ3, and CD44. We also observed the association of endogenous OPN with HCV proteins (NS3, NS5A, NS4A/B, NS5B, and core). Confocal microscopy revealed the colocalization of OPN with HCV NS5A and core in the ER and LDs, indicating a possible role for OPN in HCV replication and assembly. Interestingly, the secreted OPN activated HCV replication, infectivity, and assembly through binding to αVβ3 and CD44. Collectively, these observations provide evidence that HCV-induced OPN is critical for HCV replication and assembly.IMPORTANCE Recently, our studies uncovered the critical role of HCV-induced endogenous and secreted OPN in migration and invasion of hepatocytes. However, the role of OPN in the HCV life cycle has not been elucidated. In this study, we investigated the importance of OPN in HCV replication and assembly. We demonstrated that endogenous OPN associates with HCV NS3, NS5A, NS5B, and core proteins, which are in close proximity to the ER and LDs. Moreover, we showed that the interactions of secreted OPN with cell surface receptors αVβ3 and CD44 are critical for HCV replication and assembly. These observations provide evidence that HCV-induced endogenous and secreted OPN play pivotal roles in HCV replication and assembly in HCV-infected cells. Taken together, our findings clearly demonstrate that targeting OPN may provide opportunities for therapeutic intervention of HCV pathogenesis.
CD44; hepatitis C virus; integrin receptors; lipid droplet; osteopontin.
