29695434
2018 Jun 29
Apolipoprotein E (ApoE) plays an important role in the maturation and infectivity of hepatitis C virus (HCV). By analyzing the subcellular localization of ApoE in Huh7 hepatoma cells that harbored an HCV subgenomic RNA replicon, we found that ApoE colocalized with autophagosomes. This colocalization was marginally detected in HCV-infected cells, apparently due to the depletion of ApoE by HCV, as treatment with bafilomycin A1 (BafA1), a vacuolar ATPase inhibitor that inhibits autophagic protein degradation, partially restored the ApoE level and enhanced its colocalization with autophagosomes in HCV-infected cells. The role of HCV-induced autophagy in the degradation of ApoE was further supported by the observations that nutrient starvation, which induces autophagic protein degradation, led to the loss of ApoE in HCV subgenomic RNA replicon cells and that the knockdown of ATG7, a protein essential for the formation of autophagic vacuoles, increased the ApoE level in cells with productive HCV replication. Interestingly, the inhibition of autophagy by ATG7 knockdown reduced the colocalization of ApoE with the HCV E2 envelope protein and the HCV titers released from cells. In contrast, the treatment of cells with BafA1 enhanced the colocalization of ApoE and HCV E2 and increased both intracellular and extracellular HCV titers. These results indicated that autophagy played an important role in the trafficking of ApoE in HCV-infected cells. While it led to autophagic degradation of ApoE, it also promoted the interaction between ApoE and HCV E2 to enhance the production of infectious progeny viral particles.IMPORTANCE Hepatitis C virus (HCV) is one of the most important human pathogens. Its virion is associated with apolipoprotein E (ApoE), which enhances its infectivity. HCV induces autophagy to enhance its replication. In this report, we demonstrate that autophagy plays an important role in the trafficking of ApoE in HCV-infected cells. This leads to the degradation of ApoE by autophagy. However, if the autophagic protein degradation is inhibited, ApoE is stabilized and colocalized with autophagosomes. This leads to its enhanced colocalization with the HCV E2 envelope protein and increased production of infectious progeny viral particles. If autophagy is inhibited by suppressing the expression of ATG7, a gene essential for the formation of autophagosomes, the colocalization of ApoE with E2 is reduced, resulting in the reduction of progeny viral titers. These results indicate an important role of autophagy in the transport of ApoE to promote the production of infectious HCV particles.
apolipoprotein E; autophagosomes; autophagy; hepatitis C virus.
