29888133
2018 Jun 5
Background:Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common and aggressive type of malignant liver tumor. HCC progression depends significantly on its vascularization and formation of new blood vessels. Vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGFA) is a crucial regulator of tumor vascularization and components of VEGF-induced cell signaling pathways are important targets of therapeutical drugs that demonstrated the highest efficiency in case of advanced HCC (sorafenib and regorafenib). VEGFA is expressed as a set of isoforms with different functional properties, thus VEGFA isoform expression pattern may affect tumor sensitivity to anti-angiogenic drugs. However, information about VEGFA isoforms expression in HCC is still incomplete and contradictory. The present study aims to quantitatively investigate VEGFA isoform expression aberrations in HCC tissue.Methods:A total of 50 pairs of HCC and non-tumor tissue samples were used to evaluate the VEGFA isoform spectrum using RT-PCR and quantitatively estimate changes in isoform expression using RT-qPCR. Correlations between these changes and tumor clinicopathological characteristics were analyzed.Results:We identified VEGFA-189, VEGFA-165, and VEGFA-121 as predominant isoforms in liver tissue. Anti-angiogenic VEGFA-xxxb variants constituted no more than 5% of all mature VEGFA transcripts detected and their expression was not changed significantly in HCC tissue. We demonstrated for the first time that the least active variant VEGFA-189 is frequently repressed in HCC (p < 0.001), while no uniform changes were detected for potent angiogenesis stimulators VEGFA-165 and VEGFA-121. Isoform balance in HCC shifts from VEGFA-189 towards VEGFA-165 or VEGFA-121 in the majority of cases (p < 0.001). Changes in fractions, but not expression levels, of VEGFA-189 (decrease) and VEGFA-121 (increase) correlated with advanced Tumor-Node-Metastasis (TNM) and Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer (BCLC) tumor stages (p < 0.05), VEGFA-189 fraction reduction was also associated with poor tumor differentiation (p < 0.05).Discussion:A distinct shift in VEGFA isoform balance towards more pro-angiogenic variants occurs in HCC tissue and may modulate overall impact of VEGFA signaling. We suppose that the ratio between VEGFA isoforms is an important parameter governing HCC angiogenesis that may affect HCC progression and be used for optimizing the strategy of HCC therapy by predicting the response to anti-angiogenic drugs.
Alternative splicing; Anti-angiogenic therapy; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Isoforms; VEGFA.
