29898759
2018 Jun 14
Background:The initiation and progression of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) are largely dependent on its local microenvironment. Adipocytes are an important component of hepatic microenvironment in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), which is a significant risk factor for HCC. Given the global prevalence of NAFLD, a better understanding of the interplay between HCC cells and adipocytes is urgently needed. Exosomes, released by malignant cells, represent a novel way of cell-cell interaction and have been shown to play an important role in cancer cell communication with their microenvironment. Here, we explore the role of HCC-derived exosomes in the cellular and molecular conversion of adipocytes into tumor-promoting cells.Methods:Exosomes were isolated from HCC cell line HepG2 and added to adipocytes. Transcriptomic alterations of exosome-stimulated adipocytes were analyzed using gene expression profiling, and secretion of inflammation-associated cytokines was detected by RT-PCR and ELISA. In vivo mouse xenograft model was used to evaluate the growth-promoting and angiogenesis-enhancing effects of exosome-treated adipocytes. Protein content of tumor exosomes was analyzed by mass spectrometry. Activated phospho-kinases involved in exosome-treated adipocytes were detected by phospho-kinase antibody array and Western blot.Results:Our results demonstrated that HCC cell HepG2-derived exosomes could be actively internalized by adipocytes and caused significant transcriptomic alterations and in particular induced an inflammatory phenotype in adipocytes. The tumor exosome-treated adipocytes, named exo-adipocytes, promoted tumor growth, enhanced angiogenesis, and recruited more macrophages in mouse xenograft model. In vitro, conditioned medium from exo-adipocytes promoted HepG2 cell migration and increased tube formation of human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs). Mechanistically, we found HepG2 exosomes activated several phopho-kinases and NF-κB signaling pathway in exo-adipocytes. Additionally, a total of 1428 proteins were identified in HepG2 exosomes by mass spectrometry.Conclusions:Our results provide new insights into the concept that tumor cell-derived exosomes can educate surrounding adipocytes to create a favorable microenvironment for tumor progression.
Adipocyte; Exosomes; HCC; MSCs; NF-κB.
