29954402
2018 Jun 28
Background:Tumor-associated (TA) autoantibodies, which are generated by the immune system upon the recognition of abnormal TA antigens, are promising biomarkers for the early detection of tumors. In order to detect autoantibody biomarkers effectively, antibody-specific epitopes in the diagnostic test should maintain the specific conformations that are as close as possible to those presenting in the body. However, when using patients' serum as a source of TA autoantibodies the characterization of the autoantibody-specific epitope is not easy due to the limited amount of patient-derived serum.Methods:To overcome these limits, we constructed a B cell hybridoma pool derived from a hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) model HBx-transgenic mouse and characterized autoantibodies derived from them as tumor biomarkers. Their target antigens were identified by mass spectrometry and the correlations with HCC were examined. With the assumption that TA autoantibodies generated in the tumor mouse model are induced in human cancer patients, the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA) based on the characteristics of mouse TA autoantibodies were developed for the detection of autoantibody biomarkers in human serum. To mimic natural antigenic structures, the specific epitopes against autoantibodies were screened from the phage display cyclic random heptapeptide library, and the streptavidin antigens fused with the specific epitopes were used as coating antigens.Results:In this study, one of HCC-associated autoantibodies derived from HBx-transgenic mouse, XC24, was characterized. Its target antigen was identified as splicing factor 3b subunit 1 (SF3B1) and the high expression of SF3B1 was confirmed in HCC tissues. The specific peptide epitopes against XC24 were selected and, among them, XC24p11 cyclic peptide (-CDATPPRLC-) was used as an epitope of anti-SF3B1 autoantibody ELISA. With this epitope, we could effectively distinguish between serum samples from HCC patients (n = 102) and healthy subjects (n = 85) with 73.53% sensitivity and 91.76% specificity (AUC = 0.8731). Moreover, the simultaneous detection of anti-XC24p11 epitope autoantibody and AFP enhanced the efficiency of HCC diagnosis with 87.25% sensitivity and 90.59% specificity (AUC = 0.9081).Conclusions:ELISA using XC24p11 peptide epitope that reacts against anti-SF3B1 autoantibody can be used as a novel test to enhance the diagnostic efficiency of HCC.
Autoantibody biomarker; Cyclic peptide epitope; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Human serum ELISA; SF3B1.
