29997523
2018 Jun 26
Background: Emerging evidences have shown that the high-mobility group protein A2 (HMGA2) can aberrantly express in human cancers, and it could be an unfavorable prognostic factor in cancer patients. However, the prognostic value of HMGA2 was still unclear. Therefore, in this study, we explored the potential prognostic value of HMGA2 in human cancers by using meta-analysis based on published literatures and The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) datasets. Methods: Through searching PubMed, Embase, Web of Science and Cochrane Library databases, we were able to identify the studies evaluating the prognostic value of HMGA2 in cancers. Then, UALCAN and TCGA datasets were used to validate the results of our meta-analysis. Results: In all, 15 types of cancers were included in this meta-analysis. Pooled results showed that high level of HMGA2 was significantly correlated with poor OS (HR = 1.88, 95% confidence interval (CI) = 1.68-2.11, P < 0.001) and poor DFS (HR = 2.49, 95% CI = 1.44-4.28, P = 0.001) in cancer patients. However, subgroup analyses revealed that the high expressed HMGA2 was associated with poor OS in head and neck cancer, gastric cancer and colorectal cancer, but not esophageal cancer and ovarian cancer. Based on TCGA datasets, we analyzed 9944 patients with 33 types of cancers. Significant association between HMGA2 overexpression and poor OS was found in 14 types of cancers. Taken together, consistent results were observed in clear cell renal cell carcinoma, esophageal adenocarcinoma, head and neck cancer, hepatocellular carcinoma, ovarian carcinoma, and pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma. Conclusion: Our meta-analysis showed the significance of HMGA2 and its prognostic value in various cancers. High level of HMGA2 could be associated with poor OS in patients with clear cell renal cell carcinoma, head and neck cancer, hepatocellular carcinoma and pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma, but not esophageal adenocarcinoma and ovarian carcinoma.
HMGA2; TCGA; cancer; meta-analysis; prognosis.
