25606382
2013 Oct 30
Background:Emerging evidence has shown that p53gene participates in human carcinogenesis as tumor suppressors. Polymorphism of p53 gene codon 72 Arg/Pro (rs1042522) may influence the function of p53 protein and then affect the processing of carcinogenesis. It has been suggested that p53 codon 72 Arg/Pro polymorphism is associated with susceptibility to hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). However, published results are inconsistent and inconclusive. To examine the validity of the association between the polymorphism and HCC risk, we performed this meta-analysis.Methodology/principal findings:We have conducted a search of case-control studies on the associations of p53 codon 72 polymorphism with susceptibility to HCC in PubMed, ScienceDirect, Bio-Med central, Springer-link, EBSCO, Wanfang databases and Chinese National Knowledge Infrastructure (CNKI) databases. A total of 15 studies were identified with 3704 cases and 4559 controls for codon 72 Arg/Pro polymorphism. The result did support a significant genetic association between Pro allele and susceptibility to HCC in all the genetic models. Similarly, subgroup analysis showed significant associations between the Arg/Pro polymorphism and susceptibility to HCC when stratifying by race, gender, source of controls and hepatitis virus infection status.Conclusions/significance:This meta-analysis suggests that p53 codon 72 Arg/Pro polymorphism may be associated with the risk of HCC, especially in subgroup analysis of Asian and Caucasian population, hospital-based population, the female, and the individuals infected with hepatitis virus. However, well-designed studies based on different ethnic groups with larger sample size and more detailed data are needed to confirm these conclusions.
AFB1, aflatoxin B1; CIs, confidence intervals; CNKI, Chinese National Knowledge Infrastructure; HBV, hepatitis B virus; HCC, hepatocellular carcinoma; HCV, hepatitis C virus; HWE, Hardy–Weinberg equilibrium; Hepatocellular carcinoma; PCR–ASP, polymerase chain reaction–allele specific polymerase chain reaction; PCR–RFLP, polymerase chain reaction–restriction fragment length polymorphism; PCR–SSCP, polymerase chain reaction–Single strand conformation polymorphism analysis; PH, between-study heterogeneity; codon 72; p53; rs1042522.
