27382922
2016 Oct
Objective:The objective of our study was to evaluate recurrence patterns of upper tract transitional cell carcinomas (UT-TCCs) after radical nephroureterectomy (RNU).Materials and methods:Sixty-eight patients (mean age, 78 years; 34 men and 34 women) with UT-TCC after having undergone RNU from 2001 to 2008 were included in this study. Radiologic examinations and clinical notes were reviewed to record tumor location, tumor morphology, histologic T stages and grades, lymphovascular invasion (LVI) status, and surgical procedures. Five-year imaging and clinical follow-up (2001-2013) findings were noted at 3, 6, 12, 18, 24, 36, 48, 60, and more than 60 months after RNU for recurrence pattern and tumor-free survival. Kaplan-Meier survival curves and Cox regression models were used to assess tumor-free survival and to perform a multivariate analysis.Results:Forty-one postoperative recurrences were noted in 20 patients. The mean time to relapse was 16 months, and time to relapse ranged from 1 to 66 months. Tumor site (multifocal lesions involving both renal collecting system and ureter), tumor morphology (mass), T stage (muscle invasion [T2-T4]), histologic grade (grade 3), and the presence of LVI were identified as risk factors for postoperative recurrence in UT-TCC. T stage was the only independent risk factor.Conclusion:Urinary tract, lymph node, liver, bone, and lung recurrences were common in patients with UT-TCC and were detected most frequently at 3-24 months. Tumor site, tumor morphology, T stage, grade, and LVI status were associated with recurrence after RNU. T stage was the only independent predictor of tumor-free survival. Close surveillance for extra-urinary tract recurrences in high-risk groups and a shorter-interval follow-up of the urinary tract in low-risk patients with adjuvant chemotherapy are recommended. Identifying recurrence patterns in UT-TCC can aid in planning an effective tailored imaging surveillance strategy.
cell carcinoma; nephroureterectomy; recurrence; transitional cell carcinoma; upper tract; upper tract transitional.
