27653921
2016 Oct 15
Objectives:Anti-SOX1 antibodies are associated with small cell lung cancer (SCLC) and predict a paraneoplastic etiology in Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome (LEMS). In 2010, a study described these antibodies in a small cohort of putative non-paraneoplastic, immune-mediated neuropathies. In this respect, we investigated the seroprevalence and specificity of anti-SOX1 antibodies in a large cohort of neurological disorders.Methods:Overall, serum samples of 1493 consecutive patients were screened for anti-SOX1 reactivity by an ELISA: 471 with well-defined neurological disorders (multiple sclerosis, motor neuron disease, Guillain-Barré syndrome, and chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy), 185 with polyneuropathy (PNP) of unknown origin, and 837 with neurological syndromes of suspicious paraneoplastic etiology. These were compared to eight positive controls with definite paraneoplastic neurological syndromes (PNS) and 92 healthy individuals. We also collected demographic and clinical data, including well-characterized onconeural antibodies in anti-SOX1-positive patients.Results:Fifteen patients (1.0%) showed anti-SOX1 reactivity: two with multiple sclerosis, two with PNP of unknown origin, and 11 suspicious PNS cases. Remarkably, 9/15 anti-SOX1-positive patients had a PNP. However, antibody concentrations were significantly lower compared to positive controls, and none additionally harbored well-characterized onconeural antibodies. During a follow-up of at least four years, only five patients had cancer: one thyroid, one Hodgkin lymphoma, two breast, and one patient had multiple malignancies - prostate, penis, cecum, liver, and non-small cell lung cancer. However, none had SCLC, typically associated with SOX1 antibodies.Conclusions:The seroprevalence of anti-SOX1 antibodies in patients with various neurological disorders is low. These patients predominantly have PNPs, which might represent a group of immune-mediated diseases.
Immune-mediated; Neuropathy; Onconeural antibodies; PNS; Paraneoplastic neurological syndromes; SOX1.
