27822426
2016 Oct 1
This study explored the predictive value of serum vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and C-reactive protein (CRP) levels combined with enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) patients after transcatheter arterial chemoembolization (TACE). One hundred and seventeen patients who received TACE from June 2010 to December 2012 in our hospital were included in this study. Serum VEGF and CRP levels before and after TACE were determined by ELISA and single immunodiffusion method for analyzing the association of serum levels with pathological features. Enhanced MRI was utilized before and after TACE to measure tumor size and ADC value in enhanced region and non-enhanced region. MRI data were combined with serum VEGF and CRP levels to analyze the predictive value in efficacy and prognosis for HCC patients after TACE. The serum VEGF and CRP levels after TACE were increased, but can return to normal levels in a certain time. VEGF and CRP levels were not statistically associated with tumor location, tumor staining or presence of membrane (all P > 0.05), but closely correlated with combined portal vein tumor thrombus, combined arteriovenous fistula and distant metastasis (all P < 0.05). Low levels of serum VEGF and CRP, small tumor size and low ADC value before treatment indicated a better prognosis. The sensitivity and specificity of serum VEGF and CRP levels, tumor size and ADC value were respectively 92.31% and 88.46%, 93.85% and 90.38%, 81.54% and 78.85% as well as 47.69% and 84.62%. Serum VEGF and CRP levels, tumor size and ADC value could predict the efficacy of TACE for HCC patients. Serum VEGF and CRP levels combined with enhanced MRI may serve as markers for efficacy and prognosis evaluation in HCC patients after TACE.
Hepatocellular carcinoma; c-reactive protein; clinical feature; efficacy; enhanced magnetic resonance imaging; prognosis; transcatheter arterial chemoembolization; vascular endothelial growth factor.
