30462393
2016 Oct
Chronic alcohol consumption is a major public health problem that frequently leads to the development of liver steatosis, fibrosis, and eventually cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. Hyperhomocysteinemia is a pathological consequence of alcoholic liver disease (ALD) and is attributed to hepatic endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and insulin resistance. However, the regulatory function of nuclear receptors in ALD associated with dysregulation of homocysteine metabolism remains largely unknown. Nuclear receptor small heterodimer partner (SHP, NROB2) is a pleiotropic transcriptional repressor involved in regulating various metabolic path-ways in the liver. This study investigated a critical role of SHP in alcohol-induced hyperhomocysteinemia. . The expression and enzymatic activities of betaine-homocysteine S-methyltransferase (BHMT) and cystathionine y -lyase (CTH) were significantly increased in the liver of SHP- knockout (SKO) mice as compared to the wild-type mice. The substrates of BHMT and CTH, such as betaine, choline and cystathionine, were decreased in SKO liver while their products including hydrogen sulfide and cysteine were increased. However, methionine and homocysteine were not altered by SHP- deficiency, suggesting that the methionine cycle is activated in SKO mice. Forkhead box A (FOXA)- binding site was identified in both the BHMT and CTH promoters. Luciferase assay demonstrated that FOXAI, but not FOXA2, activated both BHMT and CTH promoters through the FOXA-binding site. Overexpression of FOXA1 induced BHMT and CTH expression in Hepal-6 cells, which was inhibited by SHP coexpression. Consistently, alcohol-induced hyperhomocysteinemia, and homocysteine-induced hepatic ER stress and glucose intolerance were abrogated in SKO mice. These novel findings identified SHP and FOXA1 as important regulators of hepatic homocysteine metabolism. Because hyper-homocysteinemia is a risk factor for cardiovascular disease and insulin resistance, and is often associated with ALD and metabolic syndrome, SHP and FOXA1 could be used as potential targets for hyperhomocysteinemia and its related diseases. Taken together, these results shed light on the regulatory mechanism of homocysteine metabolism in the liver.

