24478438
2014 Apr
We have previously shown that hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection modulates the expression of forkhead box transcription factors, including FoxO1 and FoxA2, which play key roles in gluconeogenesis and β-oxidation of fatty acid, respectively. The aim of the present study was to determine the role of forkhead box transcription factors in modulating lipid metabolism. HCV infection or core protein expression alone in transfected Huh7.5 cells increased expression of sterol regulatory element binding protein 1c (SREBP-1c) and its downstream target, fatty acid synthase (FASN), which are key proteins involved in lipid synthesis. Knockdown of FoxO1 by small interfering RNA in HCV-infected cells significantly decreased SREBP-1c and FASN expression. Further, HCV infection or core protein expression in Huh7.5 cells significantly decreased the expression of medium-chain acyl coenzyme A dehydrogenase (MCAD) and short-chain acyl coenzyme A dehydrogenase (SCAD), involved in the regulation of β-oxidation of fatty acids. Ectopic expression of FoxA2 in HCV-infected cells rescued the expression of MCAD and SCAD. Oil red O and neutral lipid staining indicated that HCV infection significantly increases lipid accumulation compared to that in the mock-infected control. This was further verified by the increased expression of perilipin-2 and decreased activity of hormone-sensitive lipase (HSL) in HCV-infected hepatocytes, implying increased accumulation of neutral lipids. Knockdown of FoxO1 and ectopic expression of FoxA2 significantly decreased HCV replication. Taken together, these results suggest that HCV modulates forkhead box transcription factors which together increase lipid accumulation and promote viral replication.Importance:Hepatic steatosis is a frequent complication associated with chronic HCV infection. Its presence is a key prognostic indicator associated with the progression to hepatic fibrosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. Several mechanisms have been proposed to account for the development of steatosis and fatty liver during HCV infection. We observed that HCV infection increases expression of both SREBP-1c and FASN. Further investigation suggested that the expression of SREBP-1c and FASN is controlled by the transcription factor FoxO1 during HCV infection. In addition, HCV infection significantly decreased both MCAD and SCAD expression, which is controlled by FoxA2. HCV infection also increased lipid droplet accumulation, increased perilipin-2 expression, and decreased HSL activity. Thus, knockdown of FoxO1 (decreased lipogenesis) and overexpression of FoxA2 (increased β-oxidation) resulted in a significant disruption of the platform and, hence, a decrease in HCV genome replication. Thus, targeting of FoxO1 and FoxA2 might be useful in developing a therapeutic approach against HCV infection.

