24571378
2014 Apr
Background:Although laparoscopic colorectal resection and laparoscopic liver resection have been accepted as effective alternatives to conventional open procedures, there are only a few reports on the clinical availability of simultaneous performance of these two procedures. We report our collective experience of patients with colorectal cancers treated with totally laparoscopic colorectal and liver resection, in comparison with those treated with an open approach.Patients and methods:This study is a retrospective, case-match review of prospectively collected data. Between May 2008 and December 2012, 24 patients with primary colorectal cancer and associated hepatic lesions underwent simultaneous laparoscopic colorectal and liver resection (laparoscopic group). They were matched with patients who underwent an open procedure (open group; n=24 out of 232) based on the types of surgery. Patient demographics, operative details, tumor-related parameters, and postoperative outcomes were analyzed.Results:Demographic features and pathologic outcomes were similar in both groups. The median duration of operation was significantly longer in the laparoscopic group than in the open group (290 versus 244 minutes; P=.008), and the median estimated blood loss was larger (325 versus 250 mL; difference not significant, P=.35). However, the time to starting a soft blended diet (3.0 versus 4.5 days; P<.001) and postoperative stay (8.0 versus 10.5 days; P=.001) in the laparoscopic group were both significantly shorter than in the open group. The postoperative complication rate was lower in the laparoscopic group (17% versus 42%; difference not significant, P=.06). The minor complication rate was significantly lower in the laparoscopic group (4% versus 33%; P=.02).Conclusions:A totally laparoscopic approach might provide short-term benefits associated with enhanced postoperative recovery despite a longer procedure time and larger blood loss. It can be a reasonable option for simultaneous colorectal and hepatic resection.

