24628837
2014 Apr
Background:The optimal duration of antiviral therapy for kidney transplant recipients (KTR) with chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection remains unclear. We reported the long-term outcomes after withdrawal of antiviral agent in KTR with chronic HBV infection.Methods:We retrospectively investigated the hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg)-positive KTR with antiviral agents between January 2002 and January 2012. Antiviral treatments were withdrawn in patients who met all of the following 7 criteria: (i) no clinical and histologic evidence of cirrhosis, (ii) normal liver biochemistry, (iii) negative for both HBV DNA and hepatitis B envelope antigen (HBeAg), (iv) no resistance to antiviral agent, (v) antiviral therapy > 9 months, (vi) maintenance dosage of immunosuppressant for > 3 months, and (vii) no history of acute rejection during recent 6 months. All patients were followed regularly at approximately 3-6 months for liver enzyme, viral markers, and HBV DNA level after antiviral withdrawal.Results:Among a total of 445 KTR, 14 HBsAg-positive patients were included in this study. Antiviral agents were used, with lamivudine in 11 patients, and with adefovir, entecavir, and telbivudine in 3 patients, respectively. Discontinuation of antiviral agent was attempted in 6 (42.9%) of 14 patients who satisfied the criteria. The median duration of antiviral therapy before withdrawal was 14.3 months (range, 9-24 months). Four (66.7%) of 6 patients were successfully withdrawn and remained negative for HBV DNA for a median 60.5 months (range, 47-82 months). The baseline HBV DNA level was not related to maintenance of remission after withdrawal. Two reactivated patients resumed antiviral treatment immediately, with subsequent normalization of HBV DNA. During the follow-up, 1 patient developed hepatocellular carcinoma; however, no patient death or graft failure was reported for all HBsAg-positive KTR.Conclusions:Antiviral therapy can be discontinued successfully and safely in selected KTR with chronic HBV infection, after complete suppression of HBV and sufficient duration of antiviral therapy.
antiviral treatment; hepatitis B virus; kidney transplantation; withdrawal.
