25456112
2015 Apr
Backgrounds:The prognostic value of biomarkers in metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) patients with liver metastases remains unclear. We assessed the difference of expression of biomarkers between primary tumors and liver metastases treated with chemotherapy in mCRC patients, as well as the prognostic value of these markers.Methods:Forty-three mCRC patients with liver-limited disease from January 2007-November 2011 were analyzed. They all received resection of primary tumors followed by oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy. After chemotherapy, they all received hepatic resection. Forty-three paired primary and metastatic tumor specimens were collected to measure the messenger RNA expression of six biomarkers by the Danenberg tumor profile method (thymidylate synthase, dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase [DPD], excision repair cross-complementing gene1, thymidine phosphorylase [TP], folylpolyglutamate synthase, and regenerating islet-derived family, member 4).Results:Thirty-six patients' messenger RNA was used for analysis. All markers showed similar expression between primary and metastatic sites. The low-expression group of Danenberg tumor profile and TP in the primary tumor showed significantly higher overall survival than the high-expression group (P < 0.001 and P = 0.033), but for DPD and TP in liver metastases, there were no significant differences of overall survival between the two groups. The ratios of marker expression in liver metastatic site to that in primary site of DPD and TP were significantly higher in chemo-responders than in non-chemo-responders (P = 0.034 and P = 0.022).Conclusions:Biomarkers' expressions in liver metastases were similar to those in the primary tumor. DPD and TP in the primary lesion may be a prognostic factor in chemotherapy-naïve mCRC patients with liver-limited disease, but those in liver tumor were not. Further validated analysis to our results would be warranted.
Colorectal cancer; DPD; Liver metastases; Prognostic marker; TP.
