26548461
2016 Jan
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) has the characristics of tumor invasiveness, frequent intrahepatic spread and extra hepatic metastases, which affects the therapy efficiency and prognosis. Epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) is now recognized as a key process in tumor invasion, metastasis and the generation of cancer initiating cells. All-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) is currently used as a potential chemo-therapeutic or chemo-preventive agent because of its anti-proliferative, pro-apoptotic and antioxidant properties. This study investigated the effects of ATRA at different concentrations on the proliferation, migration, invasion, differentiation and functions of the mouse hepa1-6 hepatocarcinoma cell line and explored whether ATRA regulates EMT in the antitumor process. Trypan blue staining and colony formation assay were used to detect cell proliferation. Wound-healing assay and Transwell Matrigel assay were performed to examine migration. Invasion was assessed by using Transwell invasion assay. In the present study, ATRA significantly inhibited the cell growth, colony formation, migration, and invasion capability of hepa1-6 cells in a dose-dependent manner. Furthermore, ATRA at low concentration (0.1 µmol/l) could generate these influences. After treated in the ATRA medium, the expression of mature hepatic markers ALB (albumin), CK18 (cytokeratin 18), TAT (tyrosine aminotransferase), ApoB (apolipoprotein B) decreased and that of hepatocarcinoma marker AFP (α fetoprotein) increased. At day 7 after ATRA induction, hepa1-6 cells showed comparable indocyanine green (ICG) uptake and glycogen storage function to the blank control. The mRNA expression of mesenchymal markers N-cadherin, vimentin, snail and twist decreased, while expression of epithelial marker E-cadherin increased in hepa1-6 cells after treated with ATRA. Therefore, this study demonstrates that ATRA remarkably suppressed the proliferation, migration, invasion of hepa1-6 hepatocarcinoma cell line and effectively induced its differentiation and liver functions in vitro through the reversal of EMT. HCC may be more sensitive to ATRA than other cancers, suggesting the prospective usefulness of ATRA in the treatment of HCC.

