26659833
2016 Jan
The present study assessed the effects of intraportal infusions of autologous bone marrow-derived mononuclear cells (MNCs) and/or CD133+ cells on liver function in patients with decompensated cirrhosis. We randomly assigned 27 eligible patients to a placebo, MNCs, and/or CD133+ cells. Cell infusions were performed at baseline and month 3. We considered the absolute changes in the Model for End-Stage Liver Disease (MELD) scores at months 3 and 6 after infusion as the primary outcome. The participants and those who assessed the outcomes were unaware of the treatment intervention assignments. After 6 months, 9 patients were excluded because of liver transplantation (n=3), hepatocellular carcinoma (n=1), loss to follow-up (n=3), and death (n=2). The final analysis included 4 patients from the CD133+ group, 8 from the MNC group, and 6 from the placebo group. No improvement was seen in the MELD score at month 6 using either CD133+ cells or MNC infusions compared with placebo. However, at month 3 after infusion, a trend was seen toward a higher mean absolute change in the MELD score in patients who had received CD133+ cells compared with placebo (-2.00±1.87 vs. -0.13±1.46; p=.08). No significant adverse events occurred in the present study. A transient improvement in the MELD score was observed in subjects treated with CD133+ cells but not in the MNC or placebo group. Although the study was not powered to make definitive conclusions, the data justify further study of CD133+ therapy in cirrhotic patients.Significance:Cell therapy is a new approach in liver disease. Several clinical experiments have been reported on the safety of bone marrow-derived stem cells to treat liver disorders. However, the effectiveness of these approaches in the long-term follow-ups of patients initiated controversial discussions among the scientific community. A double-blind randomized controlled trial was designed to address this concern scientifically. A transient improvement in the patients' signs occurred; however, for a sustainable result, more work is needed. The results of multiple administrations of cells reported in the present study can be compared with the results from other single-injection studies.
Cell-based therapy; Cirrhosis; Hematopoietic stem cell; Regenerative medicine.
