30027411
2019 Feb
Objectives:To prospectively compare the diagnostic performances of three methods of region of interest (ROI) placement for the measurements of intravoxel incoherent motion (IVIM) diffusion-weighted MR imaging in differentiating the histologic grade of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).Methods:Eighty-seven patients with 91 newly diagnosed HCCs were studied using IVIM imaging. Two attending radiologists separately identified the selection of tumour tissue for ROI positioning. Three different ROI positioning methods, namely the whole tumour volume (WTV) method, three-ROI method and one-section method, were used for the measurement. Kruskal-Wallis rank test or one-way ANOVA was used to compare the difference in IVIM parameters and ADC across the three different ROI positioning methods. Spearman correlation analysis was used to determine the correlation between each parameter and Edmondson-Steiner (E-S) grade. Receiver operating characteristics (ROC) curve analyses were performed to evaluate the diagnostic performance.Results:For the ADC and ADCslow, the mean value measured by using the WTV method was significant higher than the one-section and three-ROI methods (all p < 0.01). For the ADCslow, the highest area under curve (AUC) with a value of 0.969 was obtained by using the WTV method, followed by the one-section method (AUC = 0.938) and three-ROI method (AUC = 0.873). Additionally, for the ADC, AUC values were 0.861 for WTV method, 0.840 for one-section method and 0.806 for three-ROI method.Conclusions:Different ROI positioning methods used significantly affect the IVIM parameters and ADC measurements. Measurements of ADCslow value derived from WTV method entailed the highest diagnostic performance in grading HCC.Key points:• Diffusion MRI is useful for non-invasively differentiating the histologic grade of hepatocellular carcinoma. • Different ROI positioning methods used significantly affect the IVIM parameters and ADC measurements. • IVIM model is advantageous over mono-exponential model for assessing the histologic grade of hepatocellular carcinoma.
Diagnostic imaging; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Magnetic resonance imaging.
