30238408
2019 Feb
Background:Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the leading causes of cancer-associated deaths worldwide. Although recent studies have proposed different biomarkers for HCC progression and therapy resistance, a better understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying HCC progression and recurrence, as well as the identification of molecular markers with a higher diagnostic accuracy, are necessary for the development of more effective clinical management strategies. Here, we aimed to identify novel players in HCC progression.Methods:SPRYD4 mRNA and protein expression analyses were carried out on a normal liver-derived cell line (HL-7702) and four HCC-derived cell lines (HepG2, SMMC7721, Huh-7, BEL-7402) using qRT-PCR and Western blotting, respectively. Cell proliferation Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) assays, protein expression analyses for apoptosis markers using Western blotting, and Caspase-Glo 3/7 apoptosis assays were carried out on the four HCC-derived cell lines. Expression comparison, functional annotation, gene set enrichment, correlation and survival analyses were carried out on patient data retrieved from the NCBI Gene module, the NCBI GEO database and the TCGA database.Results:Through a meta-analysis we found that the expression of SPRYD4 was downregulated in primary HCC tissues compared to non-tumor tissues. We also found that the expression of SPRYD4 was downregulated in HCC-derived cells compared to normal liver-derived cells. Subsequently, we found that the expression of SPRYD4 was inversely correlated with a gene signature associated with HCC cell proliferation. Exogenous SPRYD4 expression was found to inhibit HCC cell proliferation by inducing apoptotic cell death. We also found that SPRYD4 expression was associated with a good prognosis and that its expression became downregulated when HCCs progressed towards more aggressive stages and higher grades. Finally, we found that SPRYD4 expression may serve as a biomarker for a good overall and relapse-free survival in HCC patients.Conclusions:Our data indicate that a decreased SPRYD4 expression may serve as an independent predictor for a poor prognosis in patients with HCC and that increased SPRYD4 expression may reduce HCC growth and progression through the induction of apoptotic cell death, thereby providing a potential therapeutic target.
Apoptosis; Hepatocellular carcinoma; SPRYD4; Tumor progression; Tumor suppressor.
