30675230
2019 Feb
Alcohol consumption is a risk factor for the development of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC); however, the association between alcohol and HCC remains unknown. The present study aimed to identify key genes related to alcohol-associated HCC to improve the current understanding of the pathology of this disease. Alcohol-associated and non-alcohol-associated HCC samples in the GSE50579 dataset of the Gene Omnibus Database were analyzed to investigate altered gene expression. Integrated bioinformatics methods were employed to clarify the biological functions of the differentially expressed genes (DEGs), including Gene Ontology (GO), Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) and protein-protein interactions (PPIs). The present study reported that candidate biomarker micro (mi)RNAs via TargetScan Human 7.1. DEGs and their associated miRNAs (according to bioinformatics analysis) were validated using reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR). Additionally, 284 EGs from the GSE50579 dataset were revealed. In GO term analysis, DEGs were closely associated with the 'regulation of nucleic acid metabolism'. KEGG pathway analysis indicated that the DEGs were tightly engaged in the 'VEGF and VEGF receptor signaling network', 'proteoglycan syndecan-mediated signaling events', 'erbB receptor signaling' and 'β1 integrin cell surface interactions'. According to the results of PPI and heat map analysis, the main hub genes were centrin 3 (CETN3), Toll-like receptor 3 (TLR3), receptor tyrosine-protein kinase (ERBB4), heat shock protein family member 8, actin γ1 (ACTG1) and α-smooth muscle actin. it was demonstrated that the ACTG1, TLR3, miR-6819-3p and miRΝΑ (miR)-6877-3P had undefined associations. Furthermore, RT-qPCR analysis revealed that miR-6819-3p and miR-6877-3P may enhance the expression levels of ACTG1 and inhibit the expression levels of TLR3 in alcohol-associated HCC tissues. TLR3 and ACTG1 were proposed as potential biomarkers of alcohol-associated HCC. Investigation into the regulatory functions of miR-6819-3p and miR-6877-3P may provide novel insights into the treatment of alcohol-associated HCC.
Toll-like receptor 3; actin γ1; alcohol; hepatocellular carcinoma; microRNAs.
