30746803
2019 Feb 11.</span
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a highly malignant tumor found in the bile duct epithelial cells, and the second most common tumor of the liver. However, the pivotal roles of most molecules of tumorigenesis in HCC are still unclear. Hence, it is essential to detect the tumorigenic mechanism and develop novel prognostic biomarkers for clinical application. The data of HCC mRNA-seq and clinical information from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database were analyzed by weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA). Co-expression modules and clinical traits were constructed by the Pearson correlation analysis, interesting modules were selected and gene ontology and pathway enrichment analysis were performed. Intramodule analysis and protein-protein interaction construction of selected modules were conducted to screen hub genes. In addition, upstream transcription factors and microRNAs of hub genes were predicted by miRecords and NetworkAnalyst database. Afterward, a high connectivity degree of hub genes from two networks was picked out to perform the differential expression validation in the Gene Expression Profiling Interactive Analysis database and Human Protein Atlas database and survival analysis in Kaplan-Meier plotter online tool. By utilizing WGCNA, several hub genes that regulate the mechanism of tumorigenesis in HCC were identified, which was associated with clinical traits including the pathological stage, histological grade, and liver function. Surprisingly, ZWINT, CENPA, RACGAP1, PLK1, NCAPG, OIP5, CDCA8, PRC1, and CDK1 were identified statistically as hub genes in the blue module, which were closely implicated in pathological T stage and histologic grade of HCC. Moreover, these genes also were strongly associated with the HCC cell growth and division. Network and survival analyses found that nine hub genes may be considered theoretically as indicators to predict the prognosis of patients with HCC or clinical treatment target, it will be necessary for basic experiments and large-scale cohort studies to validate further.
hepatocellular carcinoma; hub gene; weighted gene co-expression network analysis.
