30755242
2019 Feb 12
Background:The efficacy and safety of multikinase inhibitor anlotinib have been confirmed in the treatment of advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). However, the direct functional mechanisms of tumor lethality mediated by anlotinib were not fully elucidated, and the underlying mechanisms related to resistance remain largely elusive.Methods:Cell viability, colony formation, apoptosis and tumor growth assays were performed to examine the effect of anlotinib on lung cancer cells in vitro and in vivo. The punctate patterns of LC3-I/II were detected by confocal microscopy. HUVECs motility was detected using Transwell and scratch wound-healing assay. To visualize the microvessels, tubular formation assay was performed. The expression of LC3-I/II and beclin-1 and the changes of JAK2/STAT3/VEGFA pathway were detected by western blotting. The VEGFA levels in tumor supernatant were measured by ELISA.Results:Anlotinib treatment decreased cell viability and induced apoptosis in Calu-1 and A549 cells. Moreover, anlotinib induced human lung cancer cell autophagy in a dose- and time-dependent manner. Blocking autophagy enhanced the cytotoxicity and anti-angiogenic ability of anlotinib as evidenced by HUVECs migration, invasion, and tubular formation assay. Co-administration of anlotinib and chloroquine (CQ) further reduced VEGFA level in the tumor supernatant, compared with that of anlotinib or CQ treatment alone. When autophagy was induced by rapamycin, the JAK2/STAT3 pathway was activated and VEGFA was elevated, which was attenuated after deactivating STAT3 by S3I-201. Further in vivo studies showed that anlotinib inhibited tumor growth, induced autophagy and suppressed JAK2/STAT3/VEGFA pathway, and CQ enhanced this effect.Conclusion:Anlotinib induced apoptosis and protective autophagy in human lung cancer cell lines. Autophagy inhibition further enhanced the cytotoxic effects of anlotinib, and potentiated the anti-angiogenic property of anlotinib through JAK2/STAT3/VEGFA signaling.
Anlotinib; Anti-angiogenesis; Apoptosis; Autophagy; NSCLC; VEGFA.
