30782188
2019 Feb 19
Background:Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common malignant liver tumor with poor clinical outcomes. Increasing amount of long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) have been revealed to be implicated in the carcinogenesis and progression of HCC. However, the expressions, clinical significances, and roles of most lncRNAs in HCC are still unknown.Methods:The expression of lncRNA MCM3AP antisense RNA 1 (MCM3AP-AS1) in HCC tissues and cell lines was detected by qRT-PCR and fluorescence in situ hybridization. Immunoblotting, CCK-8, EdU, colony formation and flow cytometry were performed to investigate the role of MCM3AP-AS1 in HCC cell proliferation, cell cycle and apoptosis in vitro. A subcutaneous tumor mouse model was constructed to analyze in vivo growth of HCC cells after MCM3AP-AS1 knockdown. The interactions among MCM3AP-AS1, miR-194-5p and FOXA1 were measured by RNA pull-down, RNA immunoprecipitation and luciferase reporter assay.Results:We revealed a novel oncogenic lncRNA MCM3AP-AS1, which is overexpressed in HCC and positively correlated with large tumor size, high tumor grade, advanced tumor stage and poor prognosis of HCC patients. MCM3AP-AS1 knockdown suppressed HCC cell proliferation, colony formation and cell cycle progression, and induced apoptosis in vitro, and depletion of MCM3AP-AS1 inhibited tumor growth of HCC in vivo. Mechanistically, MCM3AP-AS1 directly bound to miR-194-5p and acted as competing endogenous RNA (ceRNA), and subsequently facilitated miR-194-5p's target gene forkhead box A1 (FOXA1) expression in HCC cells. Interestingly, FOXA1 restoration rescued MCM3AP-AS1 knockdown induced proliferation inhibition, G1 arrest and apoptosis of HCC cells.Conclusions:Our results recognized MCM3AP-AS1 as a novel oncogenic lncRNA, which indicated poor clinical outcomes in patients with HCC. MCM3AP-AS1 exerted an oncogenic role in HCC via targeting miR-194-5p and subsequently promoted FOXA1 expression. Our findings suggested that MCM3AP-AS1 could be a potential prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target for HCC.
FOXA1; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Long non-coding RNA; Tumorigenesis; miR-194-5p.
