30808414
2019 Feb 26
Background:Immunogenic radiotherapy (RT) can act synergistically with immune checkpoint blockers (ICBs). However, alternatives are needed for non-responding patients and those with pre-existing or ICB-induced autoimmune symptoms. Combination of RT with IL-2 could be an alternative. But IL-2 has a short half-life, and, by binding to its high-affinity receptor, it strongly stimulates immunosuppressive CD4+ Tregs and seems to promote potentially life-threatening vascular leakage. IL-2/anti-IL-2 complexes (IL-2c), which bind to the low-affinity receptor, have been reported to circumvent these disadvantages but they have not yet been thoroughly tested in conjunction with radiotherapy.Methods:We evaluated, in three mouse models, the antitumoral effects induced by hypofractionated RT (hRT) plus IL-2c. We also used non-invasive imaging with a newly developed PET tracer based on therapeutically active IL-2c and a PD-L1 PET tracer for the theranostic evaluation of the treatment and its side effects.Results:Treatment of mice bearing established B16 melanomas with hRT + IL-2c was superior to hRT + uncomplexed IL-2 or hRT alone; IL-2c alone was not effective. hRT + IL-2c was also synergistic in mice bearing C51 colon carcinomas or 4T1 mammary carcinomas. The better antitumor response correlated with increased tumor-specific CD8+ T cells and NK cells, but not CD4+ Tregs, in the irradiated tumor and in lymphoid organs. With the new PET tracer, we visualized the whole-body distribution of IL-2c and the bound receptors in naïve mice and tumor-bearing mice. Surprisingly, the tumor uptake was non-specific and only moderate. This prompted experiments demonstrating that specific IL-2c binding in the tumor is limited by IL-2 secreted by tumor-resident effector cells and that extratumorally expanded T and NK cells can infiltrate the irradiated tumor, which suggests that systemic immune activation considerably contributed to the reduction of tumor growth. Lastly, we show that a side effect of IL-2c treatment - a quite dramatic non-specific expansion of CD8+ T and NK cells - is only transient, and we visualized the associated splenomegaly as well as side effects on liver and lung by contrast-enhanced CT and PD-L1 PET.Conclusions:Our results show that the combination of immunogenic RT with IL-2c that are directed towards the low-affinity IL-2 receptor can be synergistic and more effective than the combination with uncomplexed IL-2. In addition, our theranostic evaluation provided insights into the mechanism of action and the side effects of IL-2c treatment.
Cancer immunotherapy; Cytokine (complex) therapy; IL-2; PET imaging; Radiotherapy.
