30890515
2019 Feb 28
Objective:To investigate the antitumor activity of Jiawei Sijunzi decoction and study its liver and kidney toxicity and its effect on the immune system in a tumor-bearing mouse model.Methods:Hepatoma H22 tumor-bearing mouse models were randomized into model group, cyclophosphamide (CTX) group, and low-, moderate-, and high-dose Jiawei Sijunzi decoction groups (JW-L, JW-M, and JW-H groups, respectively). The antitumor activity of Jiawei Sijunzi decoction was assessed by calculating the tumor inhibition rate and pathological observation of the tumor tissues. Immunohistochemistry was used to detect the expressions of Bax, Bcl-2, Bax/Bcl-2 and caspase-3 in the tumors. The liver and kidney toxicity of Jiawei Sijunzi decoction was analyzed by evaluating the biochemical indicators of liver and kidney functions. The immune function of the tumor-bearing mice were assessed by calculating the immune organ index, testing peripheral blood routines, and detection of serum IL-2 and TNF-α levels using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.Results:Compared with that in the model group, the tumor mass in CTX, JW-M and JW-H groups were all significantly reduced (P < 0.05) with cell rupture and necrosis in the tumors. Immunohistochemistry revealed obviously up-regulated expressions of Bax and caspase-3 and down- regulated expression of Bcl-2 protein with an increased Bax/Bcl-2 ratio in CTX, JW-M and JW-H groups. Treatment with Jiawei Sijunzi decoction significantly reduced Cr, BUN, AST and ALT levels, improved the immune organ index, increased peripheral blood leukocytes, erythrocytes and hemoglobin levels, and up-regulated the levels of TNF-α and IL-2 in the tumor-bearing mice. These changes were especially significant in JW-H group when compared with the parameters in the model group (P < 0.01).Conclusions:Jiawei Sijunzi decoction has a strong anti-tumor activity and can improve the liver and kidney functions of tumor-bearing mice. Its anti-tumor effect may be attributed to the up-regulation of Bax, caspase-3, TNF-α and IL-2 levels and the down-regulation of Bcl-2 expression as well as the enhancement of the non-specific immune function.
H22 tumor-bearing mice; Jiawei Sijunzi decoction; antitumor activity; immunity.
