26792738
2016 Jan 20
Hepatitis B virus (HBV) is a causative agent for chronic liver diseases such as hepatitis, cirrhosis, and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). HBx protein encoded by the HBV genome plays crucial roles not only in pathogenesis but also in replication of HBV. Although HBx has been shown to bind to a number of host proteins, the molecular mechanisms by which HBx regulates HBV replication are largely unknown. In this study, we identified jumonji C-domain-containing 5 (JMJD5) as a novel binding partner of HBx interacting in the cytoplasm. DNA microarray analysis revealed that JMJD5-knockout (JMJD5KO) Huh7 cells exhibited a significant reduction in the expression of transcriptional factors involved in hepatocyte differentiation, such as HNF4A, CEBPA, and FOXA3. We found that hydroxylase activity of JMJD5 participates in the regulation of these transcriptional factors. Moreover, JMJD5KO Huh7 cells exhibited a severe reduction in HBV replication, and complementation of HBx expression failed to rescue replication of a mutant HBV deficient in HBx, suggesting that JMJD5 participates in HBV replication through an interaction with HBx. We also found that replacing Gly(135) with Glu in JMJD5 abrogates binding with HBx and replication of HBV. Moreover, the hydroxylase activity of JMJD5 was crucial for HBV replication. Collectively, these results suggest that direct interaction of JMJD5 with HBx facilitates HBV replication through the hydroxylase activity of JMJD5.Importance:HBx protein encoded by hepatitis B virus (HBV) plays important roles in pathogenesis and replication of HBV. We identified jumonji C-domain-containing 5 (JMJD5) as a novel binding partner to HBx. JMJD5 was shown to regulate several transcriptional factors to maintain hepatocyte function. Although HBx had been shown to support HBV replication, deficiency of JMJD5 abolished contribution of HBx in HBV replication, suggesting that HBx-mediated HBV replication is largely dependent on JMJD5. We showed that hydroxylase activity of JMJD5 in the C terminus region is crucial for expression of HNF4A and replication of HBV. Furthermore, a mutant JMJD5 with Gly(135) replaced by Glu failed to interact with HBx and to rescue the replication of HBV in JMJD5-knockout cells. Taken together, our data suggest that interaction of JMJD5 with HBx facilitates HBV replication through the hydroxylase activity of JMJD5.

