27609424
2017 Jan
Objective:Hepatitis C is the result of a ribonucleic acid (RNA) virus (hepatitis C virus; HCV). The Japan Society of Hepatology (JSH) estimated that 1.5-2 million people in Japan carry HCV. Six major HCV genotypes (GT) and a large number of subtypes have been described in the literature. In Japan, around 70% to 80% of people are infected with HCV genotype 1b. The progress of the disease primarily affects the liver and may lead to liver cirrhosis, hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and death. Sofosbuvir (SOF) is a nucleotide analogue NS5B inhibitor and ledipasvir (LDV) is an inhibitor of the HCV NS5A protein. They are combined in a single tablet regimen for the treatment of GT1 patients and resulted in sustained virological response (SVR) above 94% in large phase III trials. This analysis assesses the cost-utility of LDV/SOF in GT1 patients in Japan.Research design and methods:A cohort of 10,000 patients was followed through a Markov model until they reached 100 years of age. GT1 treatment-naïve and experienced, non-cirrhotic and cirrhotic patients were studied separately. LDV/SOF was compared to several treatment regimens containing pegylated interferon (PEGIFN), telaprevir (TVR), simeprevir (SMV), daclatasvir (DCV), asunaprevir (ASV) and ribavirin (RBV). Discount rates of 2% were applied to costs and outcomes according to the Japanese guidelines.Results:LDV/SOF was cost-effective against most comparators with incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) below JPY 5,000,000. By applying a societal perspective, LDV/SOF was the dominant treatment strategy in all cases. Moreover, LDV/SOF reduced the number of cases of advanced liver disease. These results were robust to sensitivity analyses.Conclusions:LDV/SOF was cost-effective compared to most of the currently recommended treatments. Furthermore, LDV/SOF extends treatments to HCV-infected patients who are ineligible for interferon and RBV-based regimens. LDV/SOF thus has the potential to help reduce the burden of HCV in Japan.
Chronic hepatitis C infection; Cost–utility analysis; Daclatasvir; Japan; Ledipasvir/sofosbuvir; Simeprevir; Telaprevir.
