28090562
2016 Jan 8
Background & aims:Monocyte and macrophage (MΦ) activation contributes to the pathogenesis of chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection. Disease pathogenesis is regulated by both liver-resident MΦs and monocytes recruited as precursors of MΦs into the damaged liver. Monocytes differentiate into M1 (classic/proinflammatory) or M2 (alternative/anti-inflammatory) polarized MΦs in response to tissue microenvironment. We hypothesized that HCV-infected hepatoma cells (infected with Japanese fulminant hepatitis-1 [Huh7.5/JFH-1]) induce monocyte differentiation into polarized MΦs.Methods:Healthy human monocytes were co-cultured with Huh7.5/JFH-1 cells or cell-free virus for 7 days and analyzed for MΦ markers and cytokine levels. A similar analysis was performed on circulating monocytes and liver MΦs from HCV-infected patients and controls.Results:Huh7.5/JFH-1 cells induced monocytes to differentiate into MΦs with increased expression of CD14 and CD68. HCV-MΦs showed M2 surface markers (CD206, CD163, and Dendritic cell-specific intercellular adhesion molecule-3-grabbing non-integrin (DC-SIGN)) and produced both proinflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokines. HCV-induced early interleukin 1β production promoted transforming growth factor (TGF)β production and MΦ polarization to an M2 phenotype. TGF-β secreted by M2-MΦ led to hepatic stellate cell activation indicated by increased expression of collagen, tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase 1, and α-smooth muscle actin. In vivo, we observed a significant increase in M2 marker (CD206) expression on circulating monocytes and in the liver of chronic HCV-infected patients. Furthermore, we observed the presence of a unique collagen-expressing CD14+CD206+ monocyte population in HCV patients that correlated with liver fibrosis.Conclusions:We show an important role for HCV in induction of monocyte differentiation into MΦs with a mixed M1/M2 cytokine profile and M2 surface phenotype that promote stellate cell activation via TGF-β. We also identified circulating monocytes expressing M2 marker and collagen in chronic HCV infection that can be explored as a biomarker.
APC, antigen-presenting cell; Biomarkers; CD206; COL, collagen; Collagen; FITC, fluorescein isothiocyanate; Fibrocytes; HCV, hepatitis C virus; HSC, hepatic stellate cell; Huh7.5/JFH-1, Huh7.5 cells infected with JFH-1 (HCV); IL, interleukin; IL1RA, IL1-receptor antagonist; JFH-1, Japanese fulminant hepatitis-1; MFI, mean fluorescence intensity; MΦ, macrophage; NEAA, nonessential amino acid; PBMC, peripheral blood mononuclear cell; PE, Phycoerythrin; TGF, transforming growth factor; TIMP, tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase; TNF, tumor necrosis factor; mRNA, messenger RNA; α-SMA, α-smooth muscle actin.
