21689354
2012 Jun
Aim:Abdominoperineal resection has been the standard procedure for low rectal cancer. The present study details a new technique, partial longitudinal resection of the anorectum and sphincter, and assesses the oncological and functional outcomes.Method:Between January 2004 and April 2008, 12 patients underwent partial longitudinal resection of the anorectum and sphincter for low rectal cancer. All patients underwent a diverting ileostomy and received biofeedback training before stoma closure. Functional results were assessed by vector manometry, Wexner constipation score and Wexner incontinence score. The quality of life (QoL) was assessed using the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Core 30 (EORTC QLQ-C30).Results:There was no postoperative mortality and a R0 curative resection was confirmed in every case. Morbidity included anastomotic leakage in three patients, one of whom underwent reoperation, and stenosis in 11, which was successfully managed with dilatation. The patient who underwent reoperation was not included in the functional analysis. The 11 successful patients received biofeedback training for 1-4 months, and underwent ileostomy closure 6-12 months after surgery. No patient had severe faecal incontinence after stoma closure. The EORTC QLQ-C30 global health status and QoL scores at 12 months after stoma closure were 50.4 ± 24.3, similar to preoperation scores of 52.3 ± 25.6 (P = 0.927), and not significantly different to scores for the healthy control population of 63.4 ± 23.5 (P = 0.539). No patients developed local recurrence during the median observation period (35.5 months). One patient had distant metastases at 24 months, and underwent resection of the left liver.Conclusion:Curability and acceptable anal function can be obtained by partial longitudinal resection of the anorectum and sphincter in patients with very low rectal cancers. This technique is recommended as an alternative to abdominoperineal resection in patients with external sphincter muscle invasion or tumours located below the dentate line.

