23611464
2013 Jun
Context:Following cystectomy, approximately 50% of patients will present tumour recurrence. A recurrence may be local, systemic or occur in the urethra or upper urinary tract.Objective:To analyse the characteristics, risk factors and outcomes of patients with tumour recurrence following cystectomy so as to subsequently propose a cancer follow-up protocol.Acquisition of evidence:Analysis of original articles and reviews related to tumour recurrence and follow-up after radical cystectomy for urothelial tumour. Articles were obtained from Pubmed searches.Summary of the evidence:Systemic and local recurrences following cystectomy appear in 20%-35% and 5%-15% of cases, respectively. Some 80%-90% are diagnosed in the first 3 years, with the majority concentrated in the first 24 months. Common factors related to an increased risk of local and systemic recurrence are a pathologic stage ≥pT3, the presence of positive margins and the extension of the lymphadenectomy. The incidence of recurrence in the upper urinary tract and urethra is 2%-6% and 4%-6%, respectively. Both types of recurrence may appear late and share risk factors such as signs of multifocal disease, a history of non-muscle-invasive bladder cancer, multiplicity, presence of ISC, urinary tract tumours and prostatic urethral tumours. Tumours in the distal ureteral cystectomy specimen and tumours in the prostatic urethra are also risk factors related to the appearance of tumours in the urinary tract and urethra, respectively.Conclusion:Understanding the natural history of urothelial bladder carcinoma and the risk factors related to the appearance of tumour recurrence following cystectomy are essential for designing an appropriate follow-up protocol. The follow-up of patients with risk factors for local or systemic recurrence will achieve maximum efficiency during the first 3 years. The follow-up should be extended for patients with risk factors for presenting upper urinary tract or urethral tumours.

