23786931
2013 Jun
Background:Geftinib is widely used in the treatment of advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). However, only a small number of reports have described initial failure sites in patients treated with gefitinib. The aim of this study was to investigate survival, recurrence sites, and treatment after recurrence in these patients.Methods:A retrospective review was conducted of all patients with stage III/IV NSCLC treated with gefitinib in Peking Union Medical College Hospital from October 2002 to September 2011. Patient characteristics, initial failure sites, associated clinical factors, and subsequent therapy were included in the analysis of prognostic factors.Results:A total of 316 patients were identified The median progress free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) times were 238 days and 468 days, respectively. The median survival time after progression was 145 days. The sites of initial failure were lung (62.34%), bone (17.72%), central nerve system (CNS, 16.14%), liver (9.49%), and others (7.19%). Patients with single-site progression or multi-site progression were 81.01% and 18.99%, respectively. Progression-free survival time was associated with lung and bone failure. Additionally, the median survival time after progression was lower in patients with multi-site progression and liver progression. Other initial failure sites displayed no relationship with survival, including CNS failure. Subsequent therapy may affect survival after progression. In patients receiving continuous epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor (EGFR-TKI) therapy, chemotherapy, radiotherapy, and re- treatment with EGFR-TKIs, survival time after progression was prolonged compared with the best supportive care.Conclusions:Our data suggest that patients receiving gefitinib should be closely monitored regarding lung metastasis during follow-up. Liver metastases and multi-site progression were poor prognostic factors. After failure with gefitinib, patients may benefit from radiotherapy, chemotherapy, continuous EGFR-TKI therapy and re-treatment with EGFR-TKIs.

