24401223
2014 Jan
Background:Liver regulates lipid metabolism in health and disease states. Nevertheless, the entity of cardiovascular risk (CVR) resulting from dysregulation of lipid metabolism secondary to liver disease is poorly characterized.Aim and methods:To review, based on a PubMed literature search, the features and the determinants of serum lipid phenotype and its correlation with hepatic steatosis, insulin resistance (IR) and CVR across the wide spectrum of the most common chronic liver diseases due to different etiologies.Results:Alcoholic liver disease (ALD) is associated with steatosis, IR and a typical lipid profile. The relationship between alcohol intake, incident type 2 diabetes (T2D) and CVR describes a J-shaped curve. Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), and probably nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) in particular, is associated with IR, atherogenic dyslipidemia and increased CVR independent of traditional risk factors. Moreover, NASH-cirrhosis and T2D contribute to increasing CVR in liver transplant recipients. HBV infection is generally free from IR, steatosis and CVR. HCV-associated dysmetabolic syndrome, featuring steatosis, hypocholesterolemia and IR, appears to be associated with substantially increased CVR. Hyperlipidemia is an almost universal finding in primary biliary cirrhosis, a condition typically spared from steatosis and associated with neither subclinical atherosclerosis nor excess CVR. Finally, little is known on CVR in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma.Conclusions:CVR is increased in ALD, NAFLD and chronic HCV infection, all conditions featuring IR and steatosis. Therefore, irrespective of serum lipid phenotype, hepatic steatosis and IR may be major shared determinants in amplifying CVR in common liver disease due to varying etiology.
Alcoholic liver disease; Cardiovascular risk; Cirrhosis; Hepatitis B virus; Hepatitis C virus; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Lipoproteins; Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease; Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis; Primary biliary cirrhosis; Serum cholesterol; Serum triglycerides; Steatosis.
