22113553
2012 Mar
Background:Metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mRCC) still poses a challenge to therapists in spite of the availability of multiple innovative molecular treatment options. Complete remission is rare and in cases of partial remission it is often unclear if necrosis or vital carcinoma tissue persists. We report on a cohort of patients who underwent metastasectomy after neoadjuvant therapy with multi-tyrosine kinase inhibitors (MTKI).Methods:In 2009 a total of 11 patients (7 male and 4 female) underwent metastasectomy after achievement of ≥ 3 months stable partial remission. All patients received either sunitinib (n=7, mean 5.5 cycles), bevacizumab and interferon (IFN)-α2a (n=2, mean 8.5 months), temsirolimus (n=1, mean 9 months) or a combination of sunitinib followed by temsirolimus (n=1). Of the patients 7 presented with retroperitoneal lymph node metastases with a mean diameter of 3.5-12 cm, 2 patients with pulmonary metastases, 1 patient with lymph node and pancreas tail metastases and 1 female patient showed residual disease in the vena cava.Results:All metastases were completely resected with negative surgical margins. In 82% of the cases histologically active, Ki-67 positive renal cell cancer tissue was identified. The following adjunctive interventions were necessary: vena cava resection with vascular prosthesis and reimplantation of the renal vein (n=3), partial liver resection (n=1), splenectomy (n=1) and pancreas tail resection (n=1). There were no significant perioperative complications but 1 patient developed fascial dehiscence and underwent revision surgery and 1 patient developed clinically insignificant pancreatitis. After a median follow-up of 12 months (range 8-19 months) 5 patients had no recurrence and 6 of the patients showed liver (n=3), lung (n=2) or bone (n=1) recurrences from which 3 patients died.Conclusions:Metastasectomy of mRCC is associated with a low rate of complications in experienced centers. Surgical resection of metastatic disease is indicated to achieve complete remission with a favorable prognosis because of biologically active kidney cancer tissue. Patients with isolated and resectable metastases are ideal candidates for such a procedure.

