23148300
2013 Mar 1
Background:Gadoxetic acid and diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) is increasingly used for the diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). It is relevant to refine the diagnostic parameters for HCC, using state-of-the-art imaging techniques.Purpose:To validate usefulness of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) criteria with gadoxetic acid-enhanced MRI and DWI for diagnosis of small HCC by differentiation from dysplastic nodule (DN) or regenerative nodule (RN) in cirrhotic patients with strongly suspected small HCC.Material and methods:One hundred and eight patients with 102 HCCs and 29 benign nodules including 21 DNs and two large RNs (≤ 2.0 cm), and 40 patients with no HCC underwent gadoxetic acid-enhanced MRI and DWI. All patients also underwent MDCT. Index MR criteria for HCC were: (i) arterial hyperenhancement and hypointensity on hepatobiliary phase (HBP) with hyperintensity on DWI; (ii) hypovascular nodule with hyperintensity on DWI; (iii) arterial hyperenhancement and hypointensity on HBP without hyperintensity on DWI; (iv) arterial hyperenhancement and either iso- or hyperintensity on HBP, with hyperintensity on DWI; and (v) hyperintensity only on DWI. According to these criteria, MRI findings for HCCs and benign nodules were independently classified by two reviewers.Results:On multidetector-row computed tomography, 64 HCCs (62.7%) showed typical features for HCC while 13 (12.8%) were not identified. On MRI, 84 HCCs (82.4%) showed arterial hyperenhancement and hypointensity on HBP, and hyperintensity on DWI. Eight HCCs were regarded as hypovascular HCCs with hyperintensity DWI (category 2). One HCC (0.6 cm in diameter) was demonstrated only by DWI. For each observer, 101 (99.0%) and 100 HCCs (98.0%) were discernible when applying all MRI criteria for HCC, respectively. Three DNs also fit the HCC criteria, thus the specificity was 90.9% for both observers.Conclusion:With the HCC criteria based on combined gadoxetic acid-enhanced MRI and DWI, it is possible to reliably diagnose small HCC including hypovascular HCCs.

