23434039
2013 Sep
Objectives:This study was performed to measure the burden of disease from premature death and disability for chronic diseases in Korea in 2007.Study design:Chronic diseases were defined using the WHO definitions. Disability-adjusted life years (DALY) were used to analyse insurance claim data.Methods:This was a population-based study and included the total population of Korea. DALYs were used to analyse insurance claim data. Years of life lost (YLL) and years lost to disability (YLD) were measured in terms of incidence rate and number of deaths. DALYs were aggregated to YLL and YLD. To ensure code validity, only patients who had visited a tertiary hospital or a clinic three or more times for the same disease were included.Results:Cerebrovascular disease was the leading contributor to the chronic disease burden, with a value of 907.4, followed by diabetes mellitus (899), ischaemic heart disease (710), cirrhosis of the liver (616.5), chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (512.9), asthma (503.1), hypertensive heart disease (407.5), stomach cancer (356) and peptic ulcer disease (292.5). As these results demonstrate, the highest ranked diseases were cardio-cerebrovascular or related diseases, as well as the fact that hypertension, diabetes mellitus and related complications, which are associated diseases, have became increasingly severe problems. And the rural areas have a higher burden of disease than metropolitan cities. According to difference in social status, Medicaid 2 group has more burden of disease than other groups.Conclusions:It has been possible to present evidence regarding the burden of diseases and the relatively high risk of cardio-cerebrovascular disease. If the various types of cancer were combined and then the calculating tool applied, the burden would likely be greater than that of cardio-cerebrovascular disease. However, based on DALY, ischaemic heart disease demonstrated a remarkable increase compared to the rate in the previous study based on 2002 data. Underprivileged people in particular have been struggling - with chronic diseases.
Burden of chronic disease; Chronic disease; DALY.
