23720196
2013 Sep
Background:Chronic hepatitis C (HCV) is a significant risk factor for cirrhosis and subsequently hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). HCV patients with cirrhosis are screened for HCC every 6 months. Surveillance for progression to cirrhosis and consequently access to HCC screening is not standardized. Liver biopsy, the usual test to determine cirrhosis, carries a significant risk of morbidity and associated mortality. Transient ultrasound elastography (fibroscan) is a non-invasive test for cirrhosis.Purpose:This study assesses the cost effectiveness of annual surveillance for cirrhosis in patients with chronic HCV and the effect of replacing biopsy with fibroscan to diagnose cirrhosis.Method:A Markov decision analytic model simulated a hypothetical cohort of 10,000 patients with chronic HCV initially without fibrosis over their lifetime. The cirrhosis surveillance strategies assessed were: no surveillance; current practice; fibroscan in current practice with biopsy to confirm cirrhosis; fibroscan completely replacing biopsy in current practice (definitive); annual biopsy; annual fibroscan with biopsy to confirm cirrhosis; annual definitive fibroscan.Results:Our results demonstrate that annual definitive fibroscan is the optimal strategy to diagnose cirrhosis. In our study, it diagnosed 20 % more cirrhosis cases than the current strategy, with 549 extra patients per 10,000 accessing screening over a lifetime and, consequently, 76 additional HCC cases diagnosed. The lifetime cost is £98.78 extra per patient compared to the current strategy for 1.72 additional unadjusted life years. Annual fibroscan surveillance of 132 patients results in the diagnosis one additional HCC case over a lifetime. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for an annual definitive fibroscan is £6,557.06/quality-adjusted life years gained.Conclusion:Annual definitive fibroscan may be a cost-effective surveillance strategy to identify cirrhosis in patients with chronic HCV, thereby allowing access of these patients to HCC screening.

