23791657
2013 Sep 15
MicroRNA-183 (miR-183) family is proposed as promising biomarkers for early cancer detection and accurate prognosis as well as targets for more efficient treatment. The results of their expression feature in cancer tissues are inconsistent and controversy still exists in identifying them as new biomarkers of cancers. Therefore, to systemically evaluate the most frequently reported cancers in which miR-183 family members were up- or down-regulated is critical for further investigation on physiological impact of its aberrant regulation in specific cancers. The published studies that compared the level of miR-183 family expression in cancer tissues with those in noncancerous tissues were reviewed by the meta-analysis with a vote-counting strategy. Among the 49 included studies, a total of 18 cancers were reported, with 11 cancers reported in at least two studies. In the panel of miR-183 family members' expression analysis, colorectal cancer and prostate cancer ranked at the top among consistently reported cancer types with up-regulated feature. Bladder cancer, lung cancer and hepatocellular carcinoma were the third most frequently reported cancer types with significant over-expression of miR-96, miR-182 and miR-183 respectively. Breast cancer and gastric cancer were presented with inconsistent regulations and the members of this family had their own distinct regulated features in other different cancers. MiR-183 family, either individually or as a cluster, may be useful prognostic markers and/or therapeutic targets in several cancers. Further studies and repeat efforts are still required to determine the role of miR-183 family in various cancer progressions.
BCC; CIS; Cancer; FC; HCC; HG-SOC; HMCs; MPM; Malignant pleural mesothelioma; Meta-analysis; MicroRNA-183 family; NSCC; PDAC; PanINs; SCC; Tissue; UC; basal cell carcinoma; bladder urothelial carcinoma; carcinoma in situ cells of the testis; fold change; hepatocellular carcinoma; high-grade serous ovarian carcinoma; human normal pleural mesothelial short-term cell cultures; lung squamous cell carcinoma; miR, microRNA; miRNA; non-small cell lung cancer; pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma; pancreatic intraepithelial neoplasms; qRT-PCR; quantitative real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction.
