23867853
2013 Sep 18
This paper presents comparisons of biological impacts of the oxidants H2O2 and t-BHP on human liver cells, and shows modulation of these effects by the phenolic compound carvacrol. To understand better how these oxidants exert their effect on DNA and on the activity of the enzymes superoxide dismutase (SOD) and glutathione peroxidase (GPx), we measured intracellular antioxidant glutathione (iGSH) and intracellular reactive oxidative species (iROS). DNA lesions corresponded to single-strand DNA breaks, alkali-labile lesions and formamido-pyrimidine-DNA-glycosylase (FPG)-sensitive sites. Pre-treatment of cells with carvacrol substantially decreased the number of H2O2-induced DNA lesions, but the number of t-BHP-induced DNA lesions was not reduced. Activities of both SOD and GPx were stimulated significantly by carvacrol and were reduced by the combined effect of carvacrol and oxidants. H2O2 and t-BHP alone influenced the level of antioxidant enzymes differently. While H2O2 did not markedly change the activity of SOD or GPx, lower concentrations of t-BHP stimulated activity of SOD and mainly GPx. The level of iROS was increased by both oxidants and decreased by carvacrol applied either alone or with oxidants. The level of iGSH was not influenced in any of the treatments tested. Our results show that although both oxidants induced oxidative stress and damaged cellular DNA, their influences on other molecular processes were different. The protective effect of carvacrol against DNA-damaging effects of H2O2 was unambiguous, but reduction by carvacrol of the DNA-damaging effect of t-BHP was not observed. These results suggest that the phenolic compound carvacrol contributes to the defence mechanisms of the human organism, but these beneficial effects are dependent on the origin and source of the actual oxidative stress.
Antioxidant enzymes; Carvacrol; DNA lesions; Human hepatocellular carcinoma cells; Hydrogen peroxide; Reactive oxidative species; tert-Butyl hydroperoxide.
