20299979
2010 May
Objective:Insulin increases, through several molecular mechanisms, expression of plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1), the major physiologic inhibitor of fibrinolysis. This phenomenon has been implicated as a cause of accelerated coronary artery disease and the increased incidence of acute coronary syndromes associated with type 2 diabetes. We have previously reported that physiologic and pharmacologic concentrations of insulin induce PAI-1 synthesis in human HepG2 cells and that simvastatin can attenuate its effects. This study was performed to further elucidate mechanisms responsible for the insulin-induced PAI-1 production.Methods:Concentrations of PAI-1 mRNA were determined by real-time PCR, and PAI-1 protein was assayed by western blotting. PAI-1 promoter (-829 to +36 bp) activity was assayed with the use of luciferase reporter assays. The potential role of the 3'-untranslated region (UTR) in the PAI-1 gene was assayed with the use of luciferase constructs containing the 3'-UTR. Oxidative stress was measured by loading cells with carboxy-2,7 dichlorodihydrofluorescein.Results:Insulin increased PAI-1 promoter activity, PAI-1 mRNA, and accumulation of PAI-1 protein in the conditioned media. Insulin-inducible PAI-1 promoter activity was attenuated by simvastatin. Experiments performed with luciferase reporters containing the 3'-UTR showed that insulin increased luciferase activity through this region. Insulin also increased oxidative stress. Both insulin-inducible luciferase activity through the 3'-UTR and oxidative stress were attenuated by simvastatin.Conclusion:Insulin can increase PAI-1 expression through multiple mechanisms including induction mediated by the 3'-UTR of the PAI-1 gene. Accordingly, beneficial pleiotropic effects of statins on coronary artery disease may be attributable, in part, to attenuation of overexpression of PAI-1 mediated by the 3'-UTR in syndromes of insulin resistance (such as the metabolic syndrome) and type 2 diabetes.

