25341042
2014 Oct 23
The CXCL12/CXCR4 axis has been posited widely to have significant roles in many primary tumors and metastases. It is known that CXCR7 can also be engaged by CXCL12, but the exact function of CXCR7 is controversial. This prompted us to investigate the expression, specific function and signal transduction of CXCR7 in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). In this study, CXCR7 and CXCR4 were differentially expressed in nine cell lines of HCC, and that elevated expression of both CXCR7 and CXCL4 were correlated with highly metastatic ability of HCC cells. Moreover, CXCR7 expression was significantly upregulated in metastatic HCC samples compared with the non-metastatic ones by staining of high-density tissue microarrays constructed from a cohort of 48 human HCC specimens. CXCR7 overexpression enhanced cell growth and invasiveness in vitro, and tumorigenicity and lung metastasis in vivo. By contrast, CXCR7 stable knockdown markedly reduced these malignant behaviors. In addition, it was observed that alterations in CXCR7 expression were positively correlated with the phosphorylation levels of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway proteins. Targeting extracellular regulated kinase pathway by using U0126 inhibitor or using CCX771, a selective CXCR7 antagonist, drastically reduced CXCR7-mediated cell proliferation. Importantly, by using human biotin-based antibody arrays, several differentially expressed proteins were identified in CXCR7-overexpression and depletion groups. Comparative analysis indicated that upstream regulators including TP53 and IL-6 were involved in CXCR7 signal transduction. CXCR7 expression was further proved to regulate expression of vascular endothelial growth factor A and galectin-3, which may contribute to tumor angiogenesis and invasiveness. Consequently, elevated expression of CXCR7 contributes to HCC growth and invasiveness via activation of MAPK and angiogenesis signaling pathways. Targeting CXCR7 may prevent metastasis and provide a potential therapeutic strategy for HCC.

