25543421
2014 Oct
Objective:To compare the efficacy difference in treatment of depression in breast cancer between the combined therapy of acupuncture and auricular acupressure and western medication.Methods:Sixty patients were randomized into an observation group and a control group, 30 cases in each one. In the observation group, the combined therapy of acupuncture and auricular acupressure was adopted. The main acupoints of acupuncture were Hegu (LI 4), Tai-chong (LR 3), Baihui (GV 20), Zusanli (ST 36), Qihai (CV 6), etc. The supplementary acupoints were combined according to the syndrome differentiation. The treatment was given once every day, 5 treatments a week, at the interval of 2 days among weeks. The auricular acupressure was applied to gan (CO12, liver), pi (CO13, spleen), neifenmi (CO18, endocrine), etc., once every 4 days, on each side in one treatment. In the control group, fluoxetine hydrochloride capsules were prescribed for oral administration, 20 mg, once a day. The Hamilton depression rating scale (HAMD) was used to assess the disease severity and efficacy before treatment, in 4 and 8 weeks of treatment separately. HAMD factor changes were observed before treatment and at the end of the 8th week. The Asberg antidepressants scale (SERS) was applied to safety assessment.Results:The total effective rate was 86.7% (26/30) in the observation group, better than 63.3% (19/30) in the control group (P<0.05). At the end of the 4th and 8th weeks, HAMD scores were all reduced apparently in the two groups (all P<0.01). At the end of the 8th week, the scores of the HAMD factor 1 (anxiety/somatic system), factor 5 (retardation) and factor 6 (sleep disturbance) were all reduced as compared with those before treatment in the two groups (all P<0.01); the results in the observation group were better than those in the control group (P<0.05, P<0.01). SERS score in the observation group was lower obviously than that in the control group (P<0.01).Conclusion:The combined therapy of acupuncture and auricular acupressure achieves the antidepression effect in treatment of depression in breast cancer and has less side effects and high safety. The efficacy is superior to fluoxetine hydrochloride capsules.

