26334787
2016 Feb
Purpose:To study the comparative short-term safety and efficacy of transcatheter arterial chemoembolization (TACE) with drug-eluting LC Beads loaded with doxorubicin (DEBDOX), doxorubicin-eluting QuadraSpheres (hqTACE), and conventional TACE using ethiodized oil for superselective C-arm computed tomography (CT)-guided treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) after the onset of drug shortages.Materials and methods:From March 2010 to March 2011, 166 patients with HCC were treated with 232 superselective TACE procedures using C-arm cone-beam CT at one institution. Patients underwent treatment depending on the availability of materials after the onset of drug shortages. Conventional TACE with doxorubicin, cisplatin, and Ethiodol was performed for 159 procedures, DEBDOX TACE was performed for 47, and hqTACE was performed for 26. Toxicity and objective response were compared at 3 months after treatment. Data were stratified for the high-risk population (Child-Pugh class B, performance status 1, bilobar disease, and/or post-resection recurrence) and initial versus repeat treatment. Kruskal-Wallis H test, Mann-Whitney U test, and Fisher exact test were used to compare the groups, with Bonferroni correction where needed.Results:Whole liver response rates trended higher for conventional TACE (conventional TACE, 65.4%; DEBDOX, 63.8%; hqTACE, 53.8%) (P = .085). Only minor trends for differences in toxicity were observed between the three groups. Low-risk patients had higher whole liver (P = .001) and treated lesion (P = .007) response rates when treated with conventional TACE, but no significant differences were seen for DEBDOX and hqTACE. Treatment-naive patients also had higher whole liver (P = .012) and treated lesion (P = .056) response rates. No advantages for drug-eluting microspheres were found.Conclusion:Within statistical power limitations, overall toxicity and efficacy were equivalent in patients treated with LC Beads, QuadraSpheres, or ethiodized oil emulsions, including in high-risk patients, when performed superselectively with cone-beam C-arm CT guidance.

