28868867
2016 Feb
Laryngeal cancer is one of the most common malignant tumors in the respiratory tumors, and its incidence ranks second highest in the respiratory tumors. Resveratrol (Res) is a kind of polyphenols, which can inhibit nucleotides can inhibit the growth of liver cancer cells, gastric cancer cells, pancreatic cells and other tumor cells by inhibiting ribonucleotide reductase in the cells. Taxol (Tax) is a kind of secondary metabolites of Taxus chinensis, which has anti-tumor activity for breast cancer, cervical cancer, ovarian cancer and other tumors by inhibiting cellular microtubule depolymerization. But at present the effects of resveratrol combined with taxol on human laryngeal carcinoma cell strain Hep-2 and their underlying molecular mechanisms are rarely reported. After human laryngeal cancer cell Hep-2 cells were processed with resveratrol (Res) and taxol (Tax), CCK-8 assay was used to evaluate the effect of these two herbs on the proliferation of cancer cells; AO/PI staining and JC-1 were used to detect Hep-1 cells apoptosis; the expression of Bax, Bcl-2, PARP, TRIB3, and XIAP genes was detected by real time quantitative PCR; the activity of caspase-3 and caspase-8 was determined with quantitative fluorescence method. The experimental results showed that compared with Tax, Res medication alone, joint group significantly enhanced inhibition of Hep-2 cells activity, decreased the dosage of Tax, increased the expression of Bax and PARP, TRIB3, reduced the expression of the Bcl-2 and XIAP, and promoted the activity of caspase-3 and caspase-8. The test results showed that compared with the single medication, combined group could significantly increase the inhibitory effect on Hep-2 cells, significantly reduce Tax dosage, increase expressions of Bax, PARP, TRIB3, reduce expressions of Bcl-2, XIAP, and promote activity of caspase-3, caspase-8. This indicated apoptosis of human laryngeal carcinoma cell strain Hep-2 may be induced with Res, Tax, and the combination of these two herbs by mitochondria pathway. It provides valuable clue for further research on combination of Res and Tax for the treatment of laryngeal cancer, and expanding the combined application of Res and Tax.
apoptosis; laryngeal carcinoma cell Hep-2; resveratrol; taxol.
