28081627
2017
Antrodia cinnamomea (A. cinnamomea), a popular medicinal mushroom in Taiwan, is widely used to prevent or treat liver diseases. Systematic studies on the anti-inflammatory effect of A. cinnamomea and its molecular mechanisms have not yet been fully investigated. HPLC fingerprint analysis identified seven ergostane-type triterpenoids from A. cinnamomea water extract (ACW), including high amounts of Antcin K (AC), Antcin C, Antcin H, Dehydrosulphurenic acid, Antcin B, Antcin A and Dehydroeburicoic acid. Here, we explored the effects and mechanisms of ACW and the highest content AC on N-nitrosodiethylamine (DEN) induced liver inflammation, fibrosis and carcinogenesis in rats. In the in vitro study, we measured how ACW and AC dose-dependently scavenged O[Formula: see text], H2O2 and HOCl by a chemiluminescence analyzer. In the in vivo experiment, oral intake ACW and AC significantly inhibited DEN-enhanced hepatocellular inflammation, fibrosis and carcinoma by pathologic observation, the elevated bile and liver reactive oxygen species (ROS) amounts, plasma [Formula: see text]-glutamyl transpeptidase, and oxidative stress including 3-nitrotyrosine, 4-hydroxynonenal and Kuppfer cell infiltration (ED-1 stains) in the inflammatory livers. DEN enhanced nuclear factor-[Formula: see text]B (NF-[Formula: see text]B) translocation, whereas ACW and AC suppressed DEN-enhanced NF-[Formula: see text]B translocation through the inhibition of its upstream signaling of p85/phosphoinositide-3-kinase, mitogen activated protein kinase and CYP2E1 expression. In conclusion, DEN can induce hepatocellular inflammation, fibrosis and carcinoma by increasing NF-[Formula: see text]B translocation to the nucleus, and oxidative injury. ACW and its active component, Antcin K, counteract DEN-induced hepatic injury and inflammation by the protective and therapeutic mechanisms of a direct scavenging ROS activity and an upregulation of anti-oxidant defense mechanisms.
Antcin K; Antrodia cinnamomea; Fibrosis; Hepatic Inflammation; Hepatocarcinogenesis; N-Nitrosodiethylamine; Reactive Oxygen Species.
