28752441
2017
Classical alpha-1 antitrypsin (a1AT) deficiency is an autosomal recessive disease associated with an increased risk of liver disease in adults and children, and with lung disease in adults (Teckman and Jain, Curr Gastroenterol Rep 16(1):367, 2014). The vast majority of the liver disease is associated with homozygosity for the Z mutant allele, the so-called PIZZ. These homozygous individuals synthesize large quantities of a1AT mutant Z protein in the liver, but the mutant protein folds improperly during biogenesis and approximately 85% of the molecules are retained within the hepatocytes rather than appropriately secreted. The resulting low, or "deficient," serum level leaves the lungs vulnerable to inflammatory injury from uninhibited neutrophil proteases. Most of the mutant Z protein molecules retained within hepatocytes are directed into intracellular proteolysis pathways, but some molecules remain in the endoplasmic reticulum for long periods of time. Some of these molecules adopt an unusual aggregated or "polymerized" conformation (Duvoix et al., Rev Mal Respir 31(10):992-1002, 2014). It is thought that these intracellular polymers trigger a cascade of intracellular injury which can lead to end-organ liver injury including chronic hepatitis, cirrhosis, and hepatocellular carcinoma (Lindblad et al., Hepatology 46(4):1228-1235, 2007). The hepatocytes with the largest accumulations of mutant Z polymers undergo apoptotic death and possibly other death mechanisms. This intracellular death cascade appears to involve ER stress, mitochondrial depolarization, and caspase cleavage, and is possibly linked to autophagy and redox injury. Cells with lesser burdens of mutant Z protein proliferate to maintain the liver cell mass. This chronic cycle of cell death and regeneration activates hepatic stellate cells and initiates the process of hepatic fibrosis. Cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma then result in some patients. Since not all patients with the same homozygous PIZZ genotype develop end-stage disease, it is hypothesized that there is likely to be a strong influence of genetic and environmental modifiers of the injury cascade and of the fibrotic response.
Alpha-1 antitrypsin; Cirrhosis; ER stress; Fibrosis; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Liver; Pathology; Polymers; Proliferation.
