28931294
Summer 2017
Carney triad is a synchronous or metachronous association of gastric gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST), pulmonary chondroma and extra-adrenal paraganglioma. The majority of patients have only one or two components of the triad, all three tumors being found in only about 2% of the patients at the time of the first diagnosis. The most common combination is gastric and pulmonary tumors. We report a case of Carney triad which was diagnosed at Masaryk Memorial Cancer Institute. A 57-year-old female patient with a history of gastric resection for leiomyosarcoma at the age of 14 and with an unclear pulmonary lesion evident on chest X-ray since as early as 2003. She was referred to our Clinic of Comprehensive Cancer Care after being diagnosed with unspecified tumors of the stomach, the left retroperitoneum and two liver metastases. Biopsy of the retroperitoneal mass was performed and histological examination showed pheochromocytoma. The patient underwent resection of the retroperitoneal tumor and wedge resection of the gastric tumor, left hemihepatectomy and left adrenalectomy (in two separate operations). The excised gastric tumor was a gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST) with a low risk of malignancy. Analysis of a liver specimen, however, showed two GIST metastases. No pathology was found in the left adrenal gland and the retroperitoneal tumor was positive for chromogranin A. Paraganglioma was thus diagnosed. Subsequently, mutational analysis of genes coding for succinate dehydrogenase subunits B, C and D (SDHB, SDHC, SDHD) and analysis of DNA methylation at the gene locus of SDHC was made. Carney triad was thus confirmed and the unclear pulmonary lesion could be described as benign chondroma. This report demonstrates the difficulty in distinguishing between Carney triad and Carney-Stratakis syndrome. Molecular information should improve the diagnosis of Carney triad.Key words: Carney triad - GIST pulmonary chondroma extraadrenal paragangliomaCarney-Stratakis syndrome.

