20135208
2010 Jun
Asian Americans, compared with other racial/ethnic groups, are disproportionately affected by Hepatitis B disease. The literature suggests that knowledge and awareness of prevention strategies such as receiving hepatitis B screening and vaccination are potential factors associated with occurrence of hepatitis B and liver cancer, while it is unclear how baseline characteristics relate to these effective hepatitis B prevention strategies. In the study, five Asian-American groups in the state of Maryland completed self-administered pre- and post-test after receiving lectures on hepatitis B prevention, and participated in blood screening for Hepatitis B. T-test and one-way ANOVA were used to explore the differences of baseline characteristics among these participants. Logistic regression was employed to study the baseline factors and association with completion of tests. All groups were significantly different in socioeconomic characteristics except for gender and immunization status, and only marginally different in infection status (P = 0.089). The mean pre- and post-test scores were different by group (P < 0.01). All groups had significantly improved knowledge of prevention (F = 7.65, P < 0.01). Age and race were positively related to immunization status, with older participants are more likely to get vaccinated (OR = 1.02, CI = 1.00-1.03). Chinese, Korean and Vietnamese were more likely to receive vaccination. For infection, only gender was correlated with infection status, with odds of being HBV carriers for females being 74% less than that for males (OR = 0.26, CI = 0.07-0.90). Participants who had only high school or lower education, retired, self-employed, higher income level, and married were less likely to complete surveys. The study found correlations of gender, infection status, age and race with immunization status. Males are more likely to be HBV carriers. It reveals new findings on the relationship between baseline characteristics and the completion of pre- and post-tests and missing responses. The information may provide potential directions for improve preventive program for at-risk communities.

