21186519
2010 Jun
Objective:To explore the association between HBV genotype and chronic/severe liver disease with HBV infection in Chinese patients.Methods:Serum samples were collected from 2922 patients with HBV infection. HBV genotyping was performed with type-specific primers polymerase chain reaction, and the virological and biochemical markers were detected, which differences in the genotypes between various clinical types of HBV infection and liver function and virological markers between various HBV genotyping were analyzed.Results:The genotype B, C, BC combinations, D of 2922 patients with HBV infection accounted for 15.9%, 83.5%, 0.41%, 0.21% respectively. The ratio of genotype B in acute hepatitis group was higher (P = 0.003), which the ratio of genotype C in the cirrhosis group and the hepatocellular carcinoma group was higher (P = 0.000, 0.000). The difference in ratio of genotype C was not statistically significant between acute-on-chronic liver failure group and chronic hepatitis group. HBeAg-positive rate, viral load and liver function markers of B, C genotype group in acute hepatitis group and chronic hepatitis group were not significant different. HBeAg-positive rates of genotype C in acute-on-chronic liver failure group, cirrhosis group, hepatocellular carcinoma group were higher than that of genotype B (P = 0.000, 0.024, 0.003). Viral load of genotype C in hepatocellular carcinoma group was higher than that of genotype B (P = 0.025). Cholinesterase levels of genotype C in the acute-on-chronic liver failure group and the hepatocellular carcinoma group was lower than that of genotype B (P = 0.0004, 0.02).Conclusion:There were HBV genotype B, C, B/C combinations and D in Chinese patients with HBV infection, with genotype B and C being the major ones. Compared with HBV genotype B, genotype C in Chinese patients with HBV infection was more likely to chronic infection, evolved to cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma, but genotype difference was not observed in occurrence of acute-on-chronic liver failure. Genotype was not significant effect in acute and chronic hepatitis B, but HBeAg-positive rate/viral load was higher and liver damage was more severe in severe and end-stage genotype C HBV infection patients.

