26282675
2016 Nov
Background:Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a major risk factor for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). However, the mechanistic pathways that link both disorders are essentially unknown.Objective:Our study was designed to investigate the role of microRNA-21 in the pathogenesis of NAFLD and its potential involvement in HCC.Methods:Wildtype mice maintained on a high fat diet (HFD) received tail vein injections of microRNA-21-anti-sense oligonucleotide (ASO) or miR-21 mismatched ASO for 4 or 8 weeks. Livers were collected after that time period for lipid content and gene expression analysis. Human hepatoma HepG2 cells incubated with oleate were used to study the role of miR-21 in lipogenesis and analysed with Nile-Red staining. microRNA-21 function in carcinogenesis was determined by soft-agar colony formation, cell cycle analysis and xenograft tumour assay using HepG2 cells.Results:The expression of microRNA-21 was increased in the livers of HFD-treated mice and human HepG2 cells incubated with fatty acid. MicroRNA-21 knockdown in those mice and HepG2 cells impaired lipid accumulation and growth of xenograft tumour. Further studies revealed that Hbp1 was a novel target of microRNA-21 and a transcriptional activator of p53. It is well established that p53 is a tumour suppressor and an inhibitor of lipogenesis by inhibiting Srebp1c. As expected, microRNA-21 knockdown led to increased HBP1 and p53 and subsequently reduced lipogenesis and delayed G1/S transition, and the additional treatment of HBP1-siRNA antagonised the effect of microRNA-21-ASO, suggesting that HBP1 mediated the inhibitory effects of microRNA-21-ASO on both hepatic lipid accumulation and hepatocarcinogenesis. Mechanistically, microRNA-21 knockdown induced p53 transcription, which subsequently reduced expression of genes controlling lipogenesis and cell cycle transition. In contrast, the opposite result was observed with overexpression of microRNA-21, which prevented p53 transcription.Conclusions:Our findings reveal a novel mechanism by which microRNA-21, in part, promotes hepatic lipid accumulation and cancer progression by interacting with the Hbp1-p53-Srebp1c pathway and suggest the potential therapeutic value of microRNA-21-ASO for both disorders.
HEPATOCELLULAR CARCINOMA; HEPATOCYTE; MOLECULAR BIOLOGY; NONALCOHOLIC STEATOHEPATITIS.
