26932879
2016 Nov
Jaundice with pruritus is a manifestation of cholestasis. The defective biliary drainage causes accumulation of substances that are usually excreted in bile, which in turn causes pruritus. The exact nature of the pruritogen is under evaluation. However, lysophosphatidic acid is the current favourite. The causes of cholestasis can be broadly classified as intra or extrahepatic, with intrahepatic disorders being more often associated with pruritus. Cholestatic phase of acute viral hepatitis, progressive familial intrahepatic cholestasis, syndromic and non-syndromic paucity of intralobular bile ductules, drug induced cholestasis and sclerosing cholangitis (SC) are the common causes in children. An algorithmic approach facilitates early etiological diagnosis by careful clinical evaluation combined with investigations including gamma glutamyl transpeptidase, radiological imaging (ultrasonography, magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography), liver biopsy and genetic analysis. Management is largely supportive and includes nutritional rehabilitation with supplement of fat soluble vitamins and calcium, stepwise therapy of pruritus with drugs (ursodeoxycholic acid, rifampicin, bile acid sequestrants and/or opioid antagonists) and biliary diversion surgery. Complications of advanced liver disease and portal hypertension need to be addressed. Liver transplantation is required in children with refractory pruritus affecting the quality of life or those with end stage liver disease. Relief of biliary obstruction by endoscopy or surgery and treatment of diseases associated with SC like histiocytosis may be rewarding. Long-term follow-up for development of complications of liver disease and hepatocellular/ cholangiocarcinoma is essential. Thus, an early diagnosis and stepwise treatment with an understanding of the pathogenesis of pruritus in cholestatic disorders may decrease morbidity and mortality.
Acute viral hepatitis; Alagille syndrome; Children; Cholestasis; Progressive familial intrahepatic cholestasis; Pruritus.
