27347765
2016 Nov
Purpose To determine if combretastatin A-4 phosphate disodium (CA4P) can enhance the tumor uptake of doxorubicin (Dox)-loaded, polyethylene glycol (PEG)-coated hollow gold nanospheres (HAuNS) mixed with ethiodized oil for improved photothermal ablation (PTA)-chemoembolization therapy (CET) of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in rats. Materials and Methods Animal experiments were approved by the institutional animal care and use committee and performed from February 2014 to April 2015. Male Sprague-Dawley rats (n = 45; age, 12 weeks) were inoculated with N1S1 HCC cells in the liver, and 8 days later, were randomly divided into two groups of 10 rats. Group 1 rats received intrahepatic arterial injection of PEG-HAuNS and ethiodized oil alone; group 2 received pretreatment with CA4P and injection of PEG-HAuNS and ethiodized oil 5 minutes later. The gold content of tumor and liver tissue at 1 hour or 24 hours after injection was quantified by using neutron activation analysis (n = 5 per time point). Five rats received pretreatment CA4P, PEG-copper 64-HAuNS, and ethiodized oil and underwent micro-positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT). In a separate study, three groups of six rats with HCC were injected with saline solution (control group); CA4P, Dox-loaded PEG-coated HAuNS (Dox@PEG-HAuNS), and ethiodized oil (CET group); or CA4P, Dox@PEG-HAuNS, ethiodized oil, and near-infrared irradiation (PTA-CET group). Temperature was recorded during laser irradiation. Findings were verified at postmortem histopathologic and/or autoradiographic examination. Wilcoxon rank-sum test and Pearson correlation analyses were performed. Results PEG-HAuNS uptake in CA4P-pretreated HCC tumors was significantly higher than that in non-CA4P-pretreated tumors at both 1 hour (P 3 ± 1.01, 3.96 cm3 ± 1.75, and 6.13 cm3 ± 2.27 in the PTA-CET, CET, and control groups, respectively, with significant differences between the PTA-CET group and other groups (P < .05). Conclusion CA4P pretreatment caused a higher concentration of Dox@PEG-HAuNS to be trapped inside the tumor, thereby enhancing the efficacy of anti-HCC treatment with PTA-CET in rats. © RSNA, 2016 Online supplemental material is available for this article.

