28050373
2016 Nov
Introduction:Autopsy aids to the knowledge of pathology by unveiling the rare lesions which are a source of learning from a pathologist's perspective Some of them are only diagnosed at autopsy as they do not cause any functional derangement. This study emphasizes the various incidental lesions which otherwise would have been unnoticed during a person's life.Aim:The aim of this study was to determine the spectrum of histopathological findings including neoplastic lesions related or unrelated to the cause of death. It was also aimed to highlight various incidental and interesting lesions in autopsies.Materials and methods:A retrospective study of medicolegal autopsies for six years was undertaken in a tertiary care centre to determine the spectrum of histopathological findings including neoplastic lesions related or unrelated to the cause of death and to highlight various incidental and interesting lesions in autopsies. Statistical Analysis: Individual lesions were described in numbers and incidence in percentage.Results:The study consisted of a series of 269 autopsy cases and histopathological findings were studied only in 202 cases. The commonest cause of death was pulmonary oedema. The most common incidental histopathological finding noted was atherosclerosis in 55 (27.2%) cases followed by fatty liver in 40 (19.8%) cases. Neoplastic lesions accounted for 2.47% of cases.Conclusion:This study has contributed a handful of findings to the pool of rare lesions in pathology. Some of these lesions encountered which served as feast to a pathologist are tumour to tumour metastasis, a case with coexistent triple lesions, Dubin Johnson syndrome, von Meyenburg complex, Multilocular Cystic Renal Cell Carcinoma (MCRCC), Autosomal Dominant Polycystic Kidney Disease (ADPKD), liver carcinod and an undiagnosed vaso-occlusive sickle cell crisis. Autopsy studies help in the detection of unexpected findings significant enough to have changed patient management had they been recognized before death.
Dubin johnson syndrome; Medicolegal autopsies; Multilocular cystic RCC; Vaso-occlusive crisis.
