25392588
2014 Jun 4
Background:Ciji Hua'ai Baosheng Granule Formula (CHBGF) is a traditional Chinese empirical formula that can help the tumor patients who have received chemotherapy antagonize the toxin and side-effects so as to improve and prolong the life. This study is to evaluate the effects of CHBGF on improving life quality in terms of survival time, pathology of tumor tissue and ameliorating peripheral blood cells in mouse chemotherapy model with subcutaneous transplanted tumor or ascitic tumor of H22 hepatoma carcinoma cells at an overall level.Materials and methods:71 mice among the 92 Kunming mice were injected subcutaneously into the right anterior armpit with H22 hepatoma carcinoma cells, after 7 days, which had formed tumors and were used peritoneal injection of Cytoxan (CTX) (200mg/kg) to establish the mouse chemotherapy model with transplanted tumor, and then which were commensurately divided into 8 groups by random digits table. 21 mice were injected into peritoneal cavity to use CTX and the same method to establish the model. The groups for evaluating the effects on the survival time were the model, CHBGF and positive control group respectively with 7 mice in each group. The groups for evaluating the effects on anti-cancer were the model group, three treatment groups and positive control group with 10 mice in each group. The survival-time-observing groups were given intragastric administration of normal saline, CHBGF (64g/kg) once a day, and peritoneal injection of 5-Fluorouracil (25mg/kg) once every other day respectively. The survival time of each group was observed. The five anti-cancer-observing groups were given intragastric administration of normal saline, CHBGF (64g/kg, 32g/kg and 16g/kg) once a day, and peritoneal injection of 5-Fluorouracil (25mg/kg) once every other day respectively. After treatment for 21 days, the transplanted tumors were peeled off. Blood was collected through pricking eyeball and analyzed by hematology analyzer. And postchemotherapy transplanted tumor inhibition ratios were calculated. Pathological changes of tumor tissues and blood smears were observed with light microscope.Results:The life prolonging rate of CHBGF (64g/kg) group with transplanted tumor is 20.14%, and their survival time was longer than that of the 5-Fluorouracil group (PConclusion:Ciji Hua'ai Baosheng Granule Formula can prolong the survival time of the mice chemotherapy model of both subcutaneous transplanted tumor and ascitic tumor of H22 hepatoma carcinoma cells, has some determinate inhibitory effects on the growth of subcutaneous transplanted tumor chemo-treated, and has the therapeutic effect on antagonizing decrease of WBC and PLT caused by chemotherapy.
Ciji Hua'ai Baosheng Granule Formula (CHBGF); H22 hepatoma carcinoma cell; ascitic tumor; pathology; peripheral blood cell; survival time; transplanted tumor; tumor chemotherapy model.
