28070612
2017 Apr
This study was designed to examine the potential antitumor effect of some macrolides: clarithromycin, azithromycin, and erythromycin on chemically induced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in rats and on human hepatoma cells (HepG2) as well. The possible underlying antiapoptotic mechanisms were investigated. Antiproliferative activity was assessed in HepG2 using Sulforhodamine-B staining method. In vivo, HCC was induced in rats by initiation-selection-promotion protocol using diethylnitrosamine (200 mg/kg, single i.p. injection)/2-acetylaminofluorene (0.03% w/w supplemented-diet for 2 weeks)/carbon tetrachloride (2 ml/kg diluted in corn oil 1:1, single intra-gastric dose)/phenobarbitone sodium (0.05% w/w supplemented-diet for 28 weeks). Macrolides were administered once daily starting from the 3rd week until the 17th week at a dose of 100 mg/kg in the current 33-week study period. Clarithromycin showed a higher efficacy in the suppression of HepG2 proliferation with lower IC50 value than doxorubicin. In vivo, chemically-induced HCC rat model proved that clarithromycin suppressed HCC via induction of apoptosis through up-regulation of both extrinsic/intrinsic apoptotic pathways' proteins (TNFR1, cleaved caspase-3, and Bax with an increased Bax/Bcl-2 ratio) along with MMP-9 normalization. Similarly, azithromycin demonstrated antitumorigenic effect through both apoptotic pathways, however, to a lesser extent compared to clarithromycin. Moreover, azithromycin suppressed the proliferation of HepG2, however, at a higher IC50 than doxorubicin. Surprisingly, erythromycin increased HepG2 proliferation in vitro, along with worsened tumorigenic effect of the carcinogenic agents in the in vivo study with ineffective apoptotic outcome. Some macrolides represent potential antitumor agents; however, this evident anticancer activity is an individual effect rather than a group effect and involves modulation of both intrinsic and extrinsic apoptotic pathways.
Apoptosis; Diethylnitrosamine; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Macrolide antibiotics; Matrix Matalloproteinase-9; TNF receptor type-1.
