28222590
2017 Apr 19
Unnatural mirror image l-configured oligonucleotides (L-ONs) are a convenient substance class for the application as complementary in vivo recognition system between a tumor specific antibody and a smaller radiolabeled effector molecule in pretargeting approaches. The high hybridization velocity and defined melting conditions are excellent preconditions of the L-ON based methodology. Their high metabolic stability and negligible unspecific binding to endogenous targets are superior characteristics in comparison to their d-configured analogs. In this study, a radiopharmacological evaluation of a new l-ONs based pretargeting system using the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) specific antibody cetuximab (C225) as target-seeking component is presented. An optimized PEGylated 17mer-L-DNA was conjugated with p-SCN-Bn-NOTA (NOTA') to permit radiolabeling with the radionuclide 64Cu. C225 was modified with the complementary 17mer-L-DNA (c-L-DNA) strand as well as with NOTA' for radiolabeling and use for positron emission tomography (PET). Two C225 conjugates were coupled with 1.5 and 5.0 c-L-DNA molecules, respectively. In vitro characterization was done with respect to hybridization studies, competition and saturation binding assays in EGFR expressing squamous cell carcinoma cell lines A431 and FaDu. The modified C225 derivatives exhibited high binding affinities in the low nanomolar range to the EGFR. PET and biodistribution experiments on FaDu tumor bearing mice with directly 64Cu-labeled NOTA'3-C225-(c-L-DNA)1.5 conjugate revealed that a pretargeting interval of 24 h might be a good compromise between tumor accumulation, internalization, blood background, and liver uptake of the antibody. Despite internalization of the antibody in vivo pretargeting experiments showed an adequate hybridization of 64Cu-radiolabeled NOTA'-L-DNA to the tumor located antibody and a good tumor-to-muscle ratio of about 11 resulting in a clearly visible image of the tumor after 24 h up to 72 h. Furthermore, low accumulation of radioactivity in organs responsible for metabolism and excretion was determined. The presented results indicate a high potential of complementary L-ONs for the pretargeting approach which can also be applied to therapeutic radionuclides such as 177Lu, 90Y, 186Re, or 188Re.

