28381383
2017 Apr
Background:The IL-33/ST2 axis is involved in the pathogenesis of many diseases such as autoimmune diseases, cancer, and heart failure. However, studies of the IL-33/ST2 pathway in HBV-related acute-on-chronic liver failure (HBV-ACLF) are lacking. The present study aimed to determine the prognostic role of serum IL-33/soluble ST2 (sST2) in HBV-ACLF.Methods:Serum levels of IL-33 and sST2 in healthy controls (HC, n=18), chronic hepatitis B (CHB, n=27) and HBV-ACLF (n=51) patients at the 1st and 4th week after enrollment were detected using ELISA, and clinical data were collected. The follow-up of HBV-ACLF patients lasted for 6 months at least.Results:There was no significant difference of serum IL-33 level among HC, CHB and HBV-ACLF patients at week 1. However, serum sST2 level differed significantly among the three groups: highest in the HBV-ACLF group, moderate in the CHB group and lowest in the HC group. There was a reverse correlation between serum sST2 level and the survival of HBV-ACLF patients. The level of serum sST2 in HBV-ACLF survivors was significantly declined from week 1 to week 4 following the treatment, whereas that in HBV-ACLF non-survivors remained at a high level during the same period. Furthermore, serum sST2 level was significantly correlated with laboratory parameters and the most updated prognostic scores (CLIF-C OF score, CLIF-C ACLF score and ACLF grades). The receiver operating characteristics curves demonstrated that serum sST2 level was a good diagnostic marker for predicting the 6-month mortality in HBV-ACLF patients, comparable to the most updated prognostic scores. Serum sST2 cut-off points for predicting prognosis in HBV-ACLF patients were 76 ng/mL at week 1 or 53 ng/mL at week 4, respectively. HBV-ACLF patients with serum sST2 level above the cut-off point often had a worse prognosis than those below the cut-off point.Conclusion:Serum sST2 may act as a promising biomarker to assess severity and predict prognosis of patients with HBV-ACLF and help for the early identification and optimal treatment of HBV-ACLF patients at high risk of mortality.

