28449718
2017 Apr 27
Background:The incidence and mortality rates of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) have steadily increased in recent years. A hypoxic microenvironment is one of the most important characteristics of solid tumors which has been shown to promote tumor metastasis, epithelial-mesenchymal transition and angiogenesis. Epithelial-mesenchymal transition and vasculogenic mimicry have been regarded as crucial contributing factors to cancer progression. HIF-1α functions as a master transcriptional regulator in the adaptive response to hypoxia. Lysyl oxidases like 2 (LOXL2) is a member of the lysyl oxidase family, which main function is to catalyze the covalent cross-linkages of collagen and elastin in the extracellular matrix. Recent work has demonstrated that HIF-1α promotes the expression of LOXL2, which is believed to amplify tumor aggressiveness. LOXL2 has shown to promote metastasis and is correlated with poor prognosis in hepatocellular carcinoma. The purpose of our study is to explore the role of HIF-1α in progression and metastasis of hepatocellular carcinoma by promoting the expression of LOXL2 as well as the potential regulatory mechanism.Methods:HIF-1α, LOXL2 expression and CD31/periodic acid-Schiff double staining in HCC patient samples were examined by immunohistochemical staining. shRNA plasmids against HIF-1α was used to determine whether LOXL2 been increased by HIF-1α. We monitored a series of rescue assays to demonstrate our hypothesis that LOXL2 is required and sufficient for HIF-1α induced EMT and VM formation, which mediates cellular transformation and takes effect in cellular invasion. Then we performed GeneChip® Human Transcriptome Array (HTA) 2.0 in HepG2 cells, HepG2 cells overexpressed LOXL2 and HepG2 cells treated with CoCl2.Results:In clinical HCC tissues, it confirmed a positive relationship between HIF-1α and LOXL2 protein. Importantly, HIF-1α and LOXL2 high expression and the presence of vasculogenic mimicry were correlated to poor prognosis. HIF-1α was found to induce EMT, HCC cell migration, invasion and VM formation by regulating LOXL2. The results of microarray assays were analyzed.Conclusion:HIF-1α plays an important role in the development of HCC by promoting HCC metastasis, EMT and VM through up-regulating LOXL2. This study highlights the potential therapeutic value of targeting LOXL2 for suppression of HCC metastasis and progression.
EMT; HIF-1α; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Hypoxic tumor microenvironment; LOXL2; Tumor progression; Vasculogenic mimicry.
