28454458
2017 Apr
At present, survivin is one of the most cancer-specific proteins that has been identified. The present study aimed to investigate the antitumor effects of novel survivin small interfering RNA (siRNA) nanoliposomes targeting survivin in human hepatocellular carcinoma MHCC-97H cells and xenograft mouse models. Survivin-targeted siRNA nanoliposomes were prepared and transfected into MHCC-97H cells and MHCC-97H-bearing nude mice. Survivin expression was analyzed using reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) and western blotting. Cell viability was analyzed using an MTT assay and apoptosis was evaluated using Hoechst and Annexin V-fluorescein isothiocyanate/propidium iodide staining. Tumor growth in MHCC-97H-bearing mice was monitored following treatment and tumor samples were obtained for survivin expression analysis using RT-qPCR, western blotting and immunohistochemistry staining. Survivin expression levels were significantly downregulated by nanoliposome-mediated survivin siRNA delivery and this was associated with a significant inhibition of cell growth and an increase in the apoptosis of MHCC-97H cells. Downregulation of survivin expression using survivin siRNA nanoliposomes inhibited tumor growth in the MHCC-97H xenograft models without significant treatment-associated toxicity. Therefore, a cationic nanoliposome-based survivin siRNA delivery system was constructed and demonstrated to be efficient for survivin siRNA delivery in in vitro and in vivo studies. These results demonstrate that survivin downregulation was able to significantly attenuate cell proliferation and induce the apoptosis of MHCC-97H cells, as well as inhibit tumor cell growth in MHCC-97H xenograft models, indicating that survivin suppression using siRNA may contribute to the inhibition of tumor development by suppressing cell proliferation and promoting apoptosis.
hepatocellular carcinoma cells; nanoliposome; small interfering RNA; survivin; xenograft.
