21514401
May-Jun 2011
Epigenetic mechanisms maintain heritable changes in gene expression and chromatin organization over many cell generations. Importantly, deregulated epigenetic mechanisms play a key role in a wide range of human malignancies, including liver cancer. Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), which originates from the hepatocytes, is by far the most common liver cancer, with rates and aetiology that show considerable geographic variation. Various environmental agents and lifestyles known to be risk factors for HCC (such as infection by hepatitis B virus (HBV) and hepatitis C virus (HCV), chronic alcohol intake, and aflatoxins) are suspected to promote its development by eliciting epigenetic changes, however the precise gene targets and underlying mechanisms have not been elucidated. Many recent studies have exploited conceptual and technological advances in epigenetics and epigenomics to investigate the role of epigenetic events induced by environmental factors in HCC tumors and non-tumor precancerous (cirrhotic) lesions. These studies have identified a large number of genes and pathways that are targeted by epigenetic deregulation (changes in DNA methylation, histone modifications and RNA-mediated gene silencing) during the development and progression of HCC. Frequent identification of aberrant epigenetic changes in specific genes in cirrhotic tissue is consistent with the notion that epigenetic deregulation of selected genes in pre-malignant lesions precedes and promotes the development of HCC. In addition, several lines of evidence argue that some environmental factors (such as HBV virus) may abrogate cellular defense systems, induce silencing of host genes and promote HCC development via an "epigenetic strategy". Finally, profiling studies reveal that HCC tumors and pre-cancerous lesions may exhibit epigenetic signatures associated with specific risk factors and tumor progression stage. Together, recent evidence underscores the importance of aberrant epigenetic events induced by environmental factors in liver cancer and highlights potential targets for biomarker discovery and future preventive and therapeutic strategies.

