21665914
2011
Background:Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) most commonly develops in patients who have a viral infection, especially in the case of hepatitis B virus (HBV), and in patients with a chronic liver disease. HCC patients with bone metastasis (BM) suffer from pain and other symptoms that significantly reduce their quality of life. Identification of patients who are at high risk for BM after undergoing potentially curative treatment for HCC remains challenging. Here, we aimed to identify HCC BM-related genes and proteins to establish prediction biomarkers.Methods:RNA was extracted from 48 pairs of intratumoral and peritumoral formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue from HCC patients with and without BM. A cDNA-mediated annealing, selection, extension and ligation assay containing 502 cancer-related genes was used to identify novel BM-associated genes. An additional independent study with 350 HCC patients who had undergone hepatectomy was conducted to evaluate the expression of candidate genes at the protein level using immunohistochemistry on tissue microarrays (TMAs). Of the 350 patients, 273 (78.0%) were infected with HBV.Results:Seven intratumoral genes and 17 peritumoral genes were overexpressed in patients with BM, whereas 15 intratumoral genes and 28 peritumoral genes were underexpressed in patients with BM. We selected the following four genes for further analysis because they were differentially expressed in the cancer gene-specific microarray and were previously reported to be associated with BM: connective tissue growth factor (CTGF), matrix metalloproteinase-1 (MMP-1), transforming growth factor β1 (TGF-β1), and interleukin-11 (IL-11). We assessed the protein expression of these selected genes using immunohistochemistry on TMAs including 350 HCC patient specimens. We determined that expression of intratumoral CTGF, intratumoral IL-11, and peritumoral MMP-1 were independent prognostic factors for developing BM in HCC patients. Combining intratumoral CTGF and IL-11 expression was also an independent risk factor for BM development.Conclusions:Sixty-seven genes were differentially expressed in HCC patients with and without BM. High intratumoral CTGF, positive IL-11, and high peritumoral MMP-1 expression were associated with BM after hepatectomy. Intratumoral CTGF expression combined with IL-11 expression may serve as a useful predictive biomarker for HCC BM.

