28768874
2017 Sep 27
In the human hepatoma cell line Huh7, the coexpression of the coactivators peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ coactivator 1α (PGC1α), cyclic AMP-responsive element binding protein binding protein (CBP), steroid receptor coactivator 1 (SRC1), and protein arginine methyltransferase 1 (PRMT1) only modestly increase hepatitis B virus (HBV) biosynthesis. However, by utilizing the human embryonic kidney cell line HEK293T, it was possible to demonstrate that PGC1α alone can support viral biosynthesis independently of the expression of additional coactivators or transcription factors. In contrast, additional coactivators failed to support robust HBV replication in the absence of PGC1α. These observations indicate that PGC1α represents a novel adaptor molecule capable of recruiting the necessary transcriptional machinery to the HBV nucleocapsid promoter to modestly enhance viral pregenomic 3.5-kb RNA synthesis. Although this change in transcription is associated with a similar modest change in hepatitis B virus core antigen polypeptide (HBcAg/p21) synthesis, it mediates a dramatic increase in viral capsid production and robust viral replication. Therefore, it is apparent that the synthesis of cytoplasmic HBcAg/p21 above a critical threshold level is required for the efficient assembly of HBV replication-competent viral capsids.IMPORTANCE Hepatitis B virus (HBV) is a major human pathogen, and novel targets for the development of additional therapeutic agents are urgently needed. Here we demonstrate that the coactivator peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ coactivator 1α (PGC1α) serves as a unique adaptor molecule for the recruitment of additional coactivator proteins, which can finely regulate HBV transcription. The consequence of this precise regulation of viral RNA levels by PGC1α is a subtle increase in cytoplasmic HBcAg/p21 polypeptide translation, which shifts the equilibrium from dimer formation dramatically in favor of viral capsid assembly. These findings suggest that both PGC1α and capsid assembly may represent attractive targets for the development of antiviral agents against chronic HBV infection.
PGC1α; capsid assembly; hepatitis B virus; transcriptional coactivators.
