28936409
2017 Sep 28
Hepatitis B is a significant public health problem in India, yet disease awareness is very low among the general population. The disease is mostly acquired horizontally, but the role of vertical transmission should not be underestimated. In spite of the fact that the majority of cases are e negative disease, most patients present in the advanced stage and even with hepatocellular carcinoma, the leading cause of which is hepatitis B. High-risk groups (especially tribals) also harbour significant disease burden and have a high prevalence of occult infection, supporting the potential of unknowingly spreading the disease. Findings on the relation of genotypes with disease severity or drug action have been conflicting. Though recently, oral antivirals with high genetic barrier to resistance have shown good viral suppression in the long term, e and s seroconversion is poor and relapse is universal upon therapy discontinuation. As no cure is possible with the currently available therapy, the target is long-term viral suppression by prolonged administration of oral antivirals; unfortunately, this leads to poor treatment adherence, which along with the high cost of therapy results in disease progression and spread of infection. At present, therefore, emphasis should be put on health education of the general and high-risk populations, along with health care workers to increase knowledge on such preventive measures as avoiding unsafe injection practices, high-risk sex, performing unnecessary injection and blood transfusion and providing proper screening of blood products; these efforts should be combined with intensive screening and aggressive vaccination programs, especially in high-risk groups and areas of high endemicity. Vaccination strategies are still below par and logistics should be developed for wider coverage; in addition, further research should be carried out on the efficacy and mode of usage for different types of vaccine.
Clinical; Epidemiology; Hepatitis B; India; Prevention; Treatment.
