28970713
2017 Sep
India has a large share of the hepatitis C virus (HCV) burden of the world. Unsafe medical practices and blood transfusions are the leading modes of transmission of HCV in India. The commonest HCV genotype in India is genotype 3 followed by genotype 1. While directly acting antivirals (DAAs) agents have become available at reasonable rates in India, cost of therapy remains a major barrier for control of HCV in India. Generic DAAs have been proven to be cost-saving in prior studies. We examined data from various studies in India and elsewhere using generic DAAs, and evaluated whether they are equally efficacious as the branded drugs. Since the availability of generic DAAs in the Indian market, there is a lot of real life data as well as prospective studies in special patient populations such as hematological disorders (thalassemia and hemophilia), chronic kidney disease, hemodialysis patients, post liver and renal transplant patients on immunosuppression, intravenous drug users, confections and other high risk groups. Control of HCV infection in India requires multi pronged approach. There is a need to formulate a health educational curriculum targeting not only the high-risk population but also the general population regarding the transmission of HCV. Adopting the dual approach of treating the old cases (decreasing the reservoir pool of HCV) and decreasing the incidence of new ones would help curtail the disease and decrease liver related mortality. In this scenario, the role of efficacious low cost generic medications is essential.
ALT, alanine aminotransferase; CHC, chronic hepatitis C; CI, confidence interval; DAAs; DAAs, direct-acting antiviral agents; DCV, daclatasvir; EASL, The European Association for the Study of the Liver; GT, Genotype; HCC, hepatocellular carcinoma; HCV, hepatitis C virus; IL, interleukin; INASL, Indian National Association for study of the Liver; LDV, ledipasvir; Peg-IFN, pegylated interferon; RBV, ribavirin; SOF, sofosbuvir; SVR, sustained virologic response; VEL, velpatasvir; chronic hepatitis C; generic direct antivirals; real life efficacy study.
