28970709
2017 Sep
Background/aims:The most common primary malignant tumor of liver is hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). The highest risk of developing HCC is seen in patients of cirrhosis. Ultrasound is used for surveillance in these patients. This study evaluates the role of contrast enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) in the diagnosis of HCC and compares CEUS to contrast enhanced computed tomography (CECT).Materials and methods:This prospective study included 22 patients with cirrhosis and suspected to have HCC on the basis of gray scale ultrasound or elevated Alpha-fetoprotein. Multiphasic CECT and CEUS were done. On both CECT and CEUS, arterial phase enhancement patterns of the lesions were classified as heterogeneously hyperenhancing, homogeneously hyperenhancing, isoenhancing or nonenhancing. The enhancement patterns of the lesions in portal venous phase were classified as hyperenhancing, isoenhancing, washout or nonenhancing. Presence or absence of neovascularity and peripheral capsule were also noted. The diagnosis of HCC was made as per American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases (AASLD) guidelines.Results:There was moderate degree of agreement between the two modalities in characterizing the enhancement pattern in arterial phase, as calculated by using kappa test (k = 0.59, P < 0.05). Substantial agreement between them, for demonstrating the neovascularity, was also seen (k = 0.772, P < 0.05). CEUS was found to be superior to CECT in demonstrating portal venous phase wash out and peripheral capsule. Only fair agreement was seen between them, with kappa value for portal venous washout being k = 0.38 (P < 0.05) and for peripheral capsule being k = 0.328 (P < 0.05).Conclusion:CEUS is comparable to CECT in demonstrating the arterial phase enhancement pattern of HCC and the neovascularity. CEUS was found to be better than CECT in demonstrating the portal venous phase washout and peripheral capsule.
AASLD, American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases; CECT, contrast enhanced computed tomography; CEMR, contrast enhanced magnetic resonance; CEUS, contrast enhanced ultrasound; CT, computed tomography; HCC, hepatocellular carcinoma; MI, mechanical index; MRI, magnetic resonance imaging; OPD, outpatient department; RFA, radiofrequency ablation; UCA, ultrasound contrast agents; US, ultrasound; k, kappa value.
