29085209
2017 Sep 28
Aim:To investigate the role of suppressor of cytokine signaling 1 (SOCS1) in regulating MET-mediated invasive potential of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cells.Methods:Stable derivatives of mouse (Hepa1-6) and human (hep3B, HepG2) HCC cell lines expressing SOCS1 or control vector were evaluated for their ability to migrate towards hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) in the transwell migration assay, invade extracellular matrix in response to HGF stimulation in a 3-D invasion assay by confocal microscopy, and to undergo anchorage-independent proliferation in semisolid agar. Following intravenous and intrasplenic inoculation into NOD.scid.gamma mice, the ability of Hepa cells to form othotopic tumors was evaluated. Following HGF stimulation of Hepa and Hep3B cells, expression of proteins implicated in epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition was evaluated by western blot and qRT-PCR.Results:SOCS1 expression in mouse and human HCC cells inhibited HGF-induced migration through matrigel. In the 3-D invasion assay, HGF stimulation induced invasion of HCC cells across type-I collagen matrix, and SOCS1 expression significantly reduced the depth of invasion. SOCS1 expression also reduced the number and size of colonies formed by anchorage-independent growth in semisolid agar. Following intravenous inoculation, control Hepa cell formed large tumor nodules that obliterated the liver whereas the SOCS1-expressing Hepa cells formed significantly smaller nodules. Tumors formed by SOCS1-expressing cells showed reduced phosphorylation of STAT3 and ERK that was accompanied by reduced levels of MET protein expression. HGF stimulated Hepa cells expressing SOCS1 showed increased expression of E-cadherin and decreased expression of EGR1, SNAI1 and ZEB1. Comparable results were obtained with Hep3B cells. SOCS1 expressing HCC cells also showed reduced levels of EGR1 and SNAI1 transcripts.Conclusion:Our findings indicate that loss of SOCS1-dependent control over epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition may contribute to MET-mediated migration, invasion and metastatic growth of HCC.
Hepatocellular carcinoma; Invasion; MET; Migration; Suppressor of cytokine signaling 1.
