29108191
2017 Sep 20
The American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases (AASLD) updated and published the Practice Guidance for the Diagnosis and Management of Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease (NAFLD) in July 2017, which provides recommendations for the accurate diagnosis, treatment, and effective prevention of NAFLD. Related metabolic diseases should be considered during the initial evaluation of patients suspected of NAFLD. Noninvasive diagnostic techniques including transient elastography, magnetic resonance elastography, and serum biochemical models should be used to evaluate the development and progression of liver fibrosis in patients with NAFLD. Clinical liver pathology report should clearly differentiate between nonalcoholic fatty liver (NAFL), NAFL with inflammation, and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) and identify the presence or absence of liver fibrosis and its degree. Early medication for NAFLD can only be used in patients with pathologically confirmed NASH and liver fibrosis, and it is not recommended to use pioglitazone and vitamin E as the first-line drugs for patients with NASH which has not been proven by biopsy or non-diabetic NASH patients. Foregut bariatric surgery can be considered for obese patients with NAFLD/NASH who meet related indications. It is emphasized that the risk factors for cardiovascular disease should be eliminated for NAFLD patients. Statins can be used for the treatment of dyslipidemia in patients with NAFLD/NASH, but they cannot be used in patients with decompensated liver cirrhosis. Routine screening or hepatocellular carcinoma surveillance is not recommended for NASH patients without liver cirrhosis. Cardiovascular disease should be taken seriously during liver transplantation evaluation. There is still no adequate clinical evidence for the treatment of NAFLD in children and adolescents, and intensive lifestyle intervention is recommended as the first-line therapy for such patients.
Diagnosis; Disease management; Interpretation of guidelines; Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.
