24159593
2013 Jan
The development of laparoscopic liver resection (LLR) has been slow due to technical difficulties. Therefore, LLR has been limited to easily accessible lesions. Recently, this procedure has been well applied to hepatocellular carcinoma. However, until now, the indications for LLR have been tumors in the peripheral portion of the anterolateral segments of the liver (segments II, III, V and VI and the inferior part of IV according to the classification of Couinaud). Due to the growing interest in LLR, there have been many attempts to apply this technique in difficult locations. The lesions in the posterior or superior part of the liver (segments I, VII, VIII and the superior part of IV), which are considered to be poor indications for LLR, have been reported to be successfully operated on by laparoscopic surgery. Accordingly, this laparoscopic approach has become similar to open surgery in many ways. One of the major advancements of LLR is anatomic liver resection including major and minor resection. Laparoscopic mono- and bisegmentectomies have also become possible with growing experience. There are a variety of monosegmentectomies and bisegmentectomies. The common representatives of bisegmentectomies are left lateral sectionectomy, right anterior sectionectomy and right posterior sectionectomy. The common operative types of monosegmentectomies are S4, S5, and S6 monosegmentectomies, etc. Central bi-sectionectomy will also be discussed. The Glissonian approach has been useful for these types of anatomic liver resection. The difficulty of controlling hemorrhage has been overcome by performing meticulous surgical techniques with newly developed instruments, and intraoperative sonography has been used to locate the lesions and guide the resection plane even for deep-seated or invisible lesions. Further accumulation of experience and technical refinements will make theses challenging procedures more reproducible and safer.
Hepatocellular carcinoma; Laparoscopy; Liver resection.
