25607597
2015 Mar
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the sixth most common cancer and the second most lethal cancer worldwide. Evidence has shown HCC cell resistance to TRAIL‑mediated apoptosis. In a previous study, we verified that silencing SNAIL downregulated the growth of HCC cells. In addition, the mechanism of resistance to TRAIL in HCC cells was connected with the activation of nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB). Thus, it was hypothesized that the downregultaion of SNAIL sensitizes HCC cells to TRAIL-induced apoptosis by regulating the NF-κB pathway. In the present study, the most effective lentiviral vectors carrying shRNA against SNAIL were selected and adenoviral vectors harboring TRAIL were constructed. The expression of SNAIL and TRAIL was detected by quantitative PCR and western blotting. HCC cell viability and apoptosis were assessed using an MTT assay and the Hoechst test. To determine how to sensitize HCC cells to TRAIL-induced apoptosis after silencing SNAIL, p53 was assessed by western blot analysis. We also investigated the expression of Bcl-xL, cIAP2, survivin and Raf-1 protein using western blot analysis and the apoptotic degree of HuH-7 cells was detected using the Hoechst test following the suppression of each gene, which was a possible molecular mechanism to sensitive TRAIL-induced apoptosis through the downregulation of SNAIL in HCC cells. Silencing SNAIL resulted in increased apoptosis by enhancing sensitization to TRAIL in all the HCC cells. Additionally, p53 protein was upregulated in HuH-7 cells. Expression of Bcl-xL, cIAP2, survivin and Raf-1 was downregulated following silencing of SNAIL, while down-regulation of any of the proteins contributed to SNAIL suppression enhancing HCC cell sensitivity to TRAIL‑induced apoptosis, with the exception of cIAP2. The results demonstrated that silencing SNAIL can sensitize TRAIL-induced apoptosis in HCC cells by upregulating p53 protein and by regulating related genes of the NF-κB pathway such as Bcl-xL, survivin and Raf-1.

