25889950
2015 Mar 4
Background:Hepatic metastasectomy for patients with primary colorectal cancer offers better long-term outcome, and chemotherapy can increase the rate of hepatic resectability for patients with initially inoperable disease. The pattern of liver metastasis and status of the primary tumor are rarely discussed in the analysis of long-term outcome. In this report, we evaluate the influence of the pattern of metastasis on clinical features and prognosis.Methods:One hundred and fifty-nine patients who underwent hepatic metastasectomy with curative intent for liver metastasis of colorectal cancer between October 1991 and December 2006 were enrolled. Patients were grouped according to whether liver metastasis was centrally or peripherally located, based on imaging and operative findings. Patient demographics, characteristics of the primary and metastatic tumors, and surgical outcomes were analyzed for long-term survival.Results:A greater proportion of patients with centrally located metastases were male, as compared with those with peripherally located metastases. Compared with patients with peripherally located metastases, patients with centrally located metastases were more likely to have multiple lesions (P = 0.016), involvement of multiple segments (P = 0.006), large metastases (P < 0.001), and bilobar distribution of metastases (P < 0.001). The estimated 5-year recurrence-free and overall survival rates were 22.4% and 34.2%, respectively. Univariate analysis revealed that centrally located metastasis, primary tumor in the transverse colon, metastasis in regional lymph nodes, initial extrahepatic metastasis, synchronous liver metastasis, multiple lesions, poorly differentiated tumor, and resection margin <10 mm were significant poor prognostic factors for recurrence-free survival and overall survival. Cox regression analysis showed that inadequate resection margin and centrally located liver metastasis were significant predictors of shorter overall survival.Conclusions:In colorectal cancer, centrally located liver metastasis represents a poor prognostic factor after hepatectomy, and is associated with early recurrence. Neoadjuvant chemotherapy may be used to downstage centrally located liver metastases to improve outcome.

