27129228
2016 Jun 3
Toll-like receptor-3 (TLR3) senses double-stranded RNA intermediates produced during hepatitis C virus (HCV) replication, leading to activation of interferon regulatory factor-3 (IRF3) and NF-κB and subsequent antiviral and proinflammatory responses. Yet, how this TLR3-dependent pathway operates in hepatocytes is unclear. Upon fractionating cultured hepatocytes into various cellular organelles, we observed that TLR3 predominantly resides in endolysosomes of hepatocytes. To determine the critical regulators of TLR3 signaling in response to HCV infection in human hepatocytes, we isolated endolysosome fractions from mock-infected and HCV-infected hepatoma Huh7.5 cells that had been reconstituted for TLR3 expression, separated these fractions on two-dimensional gels, and identified up-regulated/down-regulated proteins by mass spectrometry. Approximately a dozen of cellular proteins were found to be differentially expressed in endolysosome fractions following HCV infection. Of these, expression of several molecular chaperone proteins was elevated. Knockdown of one of these chaperones, glucose-regulated protein 78 kDa (GRP78), compromised TLR3-dependent induction of interferon-stimulated genes and chemokines following HCV infection or poly(I:C) stimulation in cultured hepatocytes. Consistent with this finding, GRP78 depletion impaired TLR3-mediated establishment of an antiviral state. Mechanistically, although TLR3 trafficking to endolysosomes was not affected, phosphorylated IRF3 diminished faster following GRP78 knockdown. Remarkably, GRP78 transcript was significantly up-regulated in liver biopsies of chronic hepatitis C patients as compared with normal liver tissues. Moreover, the GRP78 expression level correlated with that of RANTES (regulated upon activation, normal T-cell expressed and secreted) and CXCL10, two inflammatory chemokines most frequently elevated in HCV-infected liver. Altogether, our data suggest that GRP78 contributes to TLR3-mediated, IRF3-dependent innate immune response to HCV in hepatocytes.
GRP78; Hepatitis C virus (HCV); RANTES; Toll-like receptor-3; chemokine; hepatocyte; innate immunity; interferon regulatory factor-3; interferon stimulated gene; molecular chaperone.
