27296289
2016 Jun 13
Background:Several recent studies have reported that patients with metastatic colorectal cancer (CRC) whose primary tumor is located in left side of the colon have more favorable responses to anti-epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) antibody therapy than those with right-sided tumors. However, the mechanism for this phenomenon is unknown.Methods:Fifty-two cases of primary CRC with liver metastases were analyzed in this retrospective study. The mRNA levels of 19 signal transduction genes in both primary tumor and liver metastases were measured by real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction. The purposes of this study were (1) to determine the correspondence between signal transduction gene expressions in primary tumors and corresponding liver metastases, and (2) to determine whether expression levels of these genes differ by primary tumor location.Results:mRNA expression levels of 14 of 19 signal transduction genes, including PTEN, ERBB2, MET, HGF, AREG, and EREG, showed significant correlations between the primary tumor and corresponding liver metastases. When the mRNA levels of the primary tumors were compared by tumor location, only PTEN mRNA expression differed significantly between left and right-sided CRC (median PTEN expression: left 1.00 vs. right 1.68; p = 0.017). When rectal cancers were separated from left-sided colon cancers, PTEN mRNA levels increased progressively from rectum to right-sided colon (median; rectum 0.84, left colon 1.23, right colon 1.68, p = 0.013). PTEN mRNA expression in liver metastases also differed significantly according to primary tumor location (median; left 0.92 vs. right 1.27, p = 0.048). There was no difference in overall survival between patients with high versus low levels of PTEN mRNA (p = 0.59).Conclusions:Our data suggest that the PIK3/AKT/mTOR pathway is more active in left- than right-sided CRC, which provides a possible explanation for the fact that efficacy of anti-EGFR therapy differs by location of primary tumor.
Colorectal cancer; Gene expression; Liver metastases; PTEN; Primary tumor location; Signaling pathway.
