27688833
2016 Jun
Background:Little has been reported on the costs of managing the adverse events (AEs) associated with current therapies for patients with regional or distant metastatic melanoma.Objectives:To identify treatment-related AEs in patients with metastatic melanoma and to estimate the associated costs of treating these AEs in the United States.Methods:A cost-estimation study for AEs associated with treatment of metastatic melanoma was conducted from 2012 to 2013 by identifying grades 3 and 4 AEs through the use of a comprehensive search of drug labels and English-language, published phase 2/3 studies in PubMed, conference abstracts, and the National Comprehensive Cancer Network guidelines. Resource utilization for the management of each type of AE in the outpatient setting was obtained via interviews with 5 melanoma specialists in the United States. Unit costs for an AE associated with melanoma treatment in the outpatient setting were assigned using Medicare reimbursement rates to obtain these costs. Hospitalization and length-of-stay costs were estimated for each associated AE using the large national claims database Optum Clinformatics Data Mart for the period of July 1, 2004, to November 30, 2012.Results:The most common AEs associated with chemotherapies used for melanoma were neutropenia, vomiting, and anemia. The most common AEs associated with vemurafenib were cutaneous squamous-cell carcinoma or keratoacanthoma, rash, and elevated liver enzymes; the most common AEs associated with dabrafenib were cutaneous squamous-cell carcinoma and pyrexia. Trametinib was most often associated with hypertension and rash. The most common AEs with ipilimumab were immune-related diarrhea or colitis, dyspnea, anemia, vomiting, and, less frequently, hypophysitis. The most common grade 3/4 AE with talimogene laherparepvec was cellulitis. The highest treatment costs for an AE in the outpatient setting were for neutropenia ($2092), headache ($609), and peripheral neuropathy ($539). The highest mean inpatient costs for an AE were for acute myocardial infarction, sepsis, and coma, which ranged from $31,682 to $47,069. Colitis or diarrhea, cutaneous squamous-cell carcinoma, thrombocytopenia, hyponatremia, oliguria or anuria, hypertension, anemia, and elevated liver enzymes were associated with mean costs for hospitalization ranging from $19,122 to $26,861.Conclusion:The costs of managing treatment-related AEs in patients with metastatic melanoma are substantial. Effective treatments with improved safety profiles may help to reduce these costs. Until real-world evidence for the costs associated with treatment toxicity is available in the outpatient and inpatient settings, the costs estimated in this study can help inform decision makers about the cost-effectiveness of managing patients with metastatic melanoma.
adverse events; chemotherapy; cost analysis; cost of illness; dabrafenib; dacarbazine; drug-related side effects; interleukin-2; ipilimumab; metastatic melanoma; talimogene laherparepvec; temozolomide; toxicities; trametinib; vemurafenib.
