21840583
2011 Nov
Objectives:While intraperitoneal (IP) chemotherapy has shown significant survival benefits, the ability to successfully deliver IP chemotherapy has been limited. In GOG 172, surgically-placed IP catheters had a reported complication rate of 34%. In addition, IP catheters have to be placed surgically. We have developed a novel percutaneous placement technique for IP catheters in patients without ascites.Methods:This study was a retrospective analysis of all patients receiving percutaneously-placed IP catheters from 12/2008 to present. Catheters were placed using a two-step technique under conscious sedation. IP access was gained using ultrasound-guided peritoneal puncture over the right lobe of the liver. A 5 Fr catheter was placed into the peritoneal cavity and the abdomen insufflated with carbon dioxide (CO(2)). Access was gained in the RLQ once distention separated the bowel from the abdominal wall. A 14.5 Fr multi-side hole catheter was coiled in the pelvis, and a reservoir tunneled onto the lower anterior chest wall. For this analysis, abstracted data included patient demographics, indication for catheter placement, complications (procedural and with chemotherapy delivery), fluoroscopy time, and timing/indication of catheter removal.Results:Eleven patients received IP catheters. The mean age was 58 years, mean body mass index was 27.1, and mean number of days from surgical debulking was 38. There were two stage 2, and eight stage 3 patients. Two patients had fallopian tube, and nine patients had ovarian cancer. All patients had an optimal debulking procedure. Seven of 11 patients also obtained central intravenous access when the IP port was placed. Follow-up data were as follows: Average fluoroscopy time was 9 min. One patient (9%) had an intra-procedural complication but the catheter was successfully placed. Zero patients had catheter-related complications in the course of receiving chemotherapy. Five of the 11 patients (45%) completed the planned IP chemotherapy treatments, with three additional patients (27%) currently receiving therapy. The remaining three patients (27%) discontinued chemotherapy for reasons unrelated to IP catheter function: two due to chemotherapy side effects, and one with sepsis from a perforated diverticulum.Conclusions:Thus far, our experience with percutaneous placement of IP catheters is associated with a low risk of catheter-related complications and high technical success rates. CO(2) insufflation may make peritoneal puncture easier and potentially safer. This procedure offers an alternative to surgical placement, even in patients without clinically significant ascites.

