22042469
2011 Nov
Background:The use of engineered mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) as therapeutic vehicles for the treatment of experimental pancreatic and breast cancer has been previously demonstrated. The potential application of MSCs for the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) has been controversial. The general approach uses engineered MSCs to target different aspects of tumor biology, including angiogenesis or the fibroblast-like stromal compartment, through the use of tissue-specific expression of therapeutic transgenes. The aim of the present study was (1) to evaluate the effect of exogenously added MSCs on the growth of HCC and (2) the establishment of an MSC-based suicide gene therapy for experimental HCC.Methods:Mesenchymal stem cells were isolated from bone marrow of C57/Bl6 p53(-/-) mice. The cells were injected into mice with HCC xenografts and the effect on tumor proliferation and angiogenesis was evaluated. The cells were then stably transfected with red fluorescent protein (RFP) or Herpes simplex virus thymidine kinase (HSV-Tk) gene under control of the Tie2 promoter/enhancer or the CCL5 promoter. Mesenchymal stem cells were injected intravenously into mice with orthotopically growing xenografts of HCC and treated with ganciclovir (GCV).Results:Ex vivo examination of hepatic tumors revealed tumor-specific recruitment, enhanced tumor growth, and increased microvessel density after nontherapeutic MSC injections. After their homing to the hepatic xenografts, engineered MSCs demonstrated activation of the Tie2 or CCL5 promoter as shown by RFP expression. Application of CCL5/HSV-TK transfected MSCs in combination with GCV significantly reduced tumor growth by 56.4% as compared with the control group and by 71.6% as compared with nontherapeutic MSC injections. CCL5/HSV-TK(+) transfected MSCs proved more potent in tumor inhibition as compared with Tie2/HSV-TK(+) MSCs.Conclusion:Exogenously added MSCs are recruited to growing HCC xenografts with concomitant activation of the CCL5 or Tie2 promoters within the MSCs. Stem cell-mediated introduction of suicide genes into the tumor followed by prodrug administration was effective for treatment of experimental HCC and thus may help fill the existing gap in bridging therapies for patients suffering from advanced HCCs.

