22464699
2012 Jan
Objective:To evaluate the outcomes of liver transplant recipients who received liver allografts from hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg)-positive donors.Methods:The medical records of 23 male patients (median age, 42.5 years; range: 29-61) who received HBsAg-(+) liver allografts in our organ transplant center were retrospectively analyzed. All patients had confirmed diagnosis of end-stage liver disease (ESLD) secondary to hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection, including 13 HBsAg(+)/HBeAg(-)/HBcAb(+) cases and 10 HBsAg(+)/HBeAb(+)/HBcAb(+) cases. After transplantation, all patients were administered oral entecavir and intravenous anti-hepatitis B immunoglobulin (HBIG) (2000 IU/d during the first week), along with a steroid-free immune suppression regimen. HBV-related antigen and antibody and HBV DNA were detected on post-transplantation days 1, 7, 14, 21, and 30. The liver allografts were monitored by ultrasound imaging. After discharge, monthly follow-up recorded liver function, renal function, acute rejection, infections, vascular complications, biliary complications, HBV recurrence, cancer recurrence, and patient survival.Results:Two of the recipients died from severe perioperative pneumonia. The remaining 21 recipients were followed-up for 10 to 38 months, and all 21 patients remained HBsAg(+). One recipient developed biliary ischemia and required a second liver transplantation at five months after the primary transplantation. Three recipients (all primary) died from tumor recurrence at 9, 14, and 18 months post-transplantation, respectively. All other recipients survived and had acceptably low HBV DNA copy levels. Color Doppler imaging showed good graft function and normal texture. The patient and graft survival rates were 78.3% (18/23) and 73.9% (17/23), respectively. The recurrence rate of HBV infection was 100% (23/23). In surviving patients, no liver function abnormality, graft loss, or death was found to be related to the recurrence of HBV infection.Conclusion:Liver transplantation using HBsAg(+) liver grafts was safe for patients with ESLD secondary to HBV infection.

