23142419
2013 Jan
Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) is crucial to NADPH generation and redox homeostasis. We have recently shown that G6PD deficiency predisposes cells to oxidant-induced cell death, and it is associated with the impairment of glutathione regeneration. It remains unclear what other metabolic pathways are affected by G6PD deficiency and whether the altered metabolism disturbs cellular redox homeostasis and underlies increased susceptibility to oxidants. In this study, we examined the effects of diamide on global metabolite profiles of SK-Hep1-derived SK-i-Gi and SK-i-Sc cells, which could inducibly express short hairpin RNA (shRNA) against G6PD (Gi) and control shRNA (Sc), respectively. There was no significant difference in their metabolite profiles under uninduced conditions. Doxycycline (Dox) addition resulted in over 70% decrease in G6PD activity in SK-i-Gi cells. This was accompanied by relatively minor changes in the metabolome of SK-i-Gi cells. Upon further diamide treatment, the metabolite profiles of both SK-i-Gi and SK-i-Sc cells changed in a time-dependent manner. A number of metabolic pathways, including those involved in energy metabolism and metabolism of amino acids and glutathione, were affected. However, the changes in the metabolite profile of Dox-treated SK-i-Gi cells were distinct from those of control cells (i.e., Dox-treated SK-i-Sc, SK-i-Gi, and SK-i-Sc cells). Cellular glutathione was depleted, whereas its disulfide form increased significantly in diamide, Dox-treated SK-i-Gi cells. Metabolites related to energy metabolism, such as AMP, ADP, and acetylcarnitine, increased to a greater extent in these cells than in diamide-treated control cells. In contrast, NAD and glutathione dropped to lower levels in SK-i-Gi cells than in control cells. The NAD(+) depletion in SK-i-Gi cells was accompanied by a significant increase in NAD kinase activity. Targeted analyses revealed that NADP(+) and NADPH increased significantly in diamide, Dox-treated SK-i-Gi cells compared with similarly treated control cells. Our results suggest that diamide induces oxidation and depletion of glutathione in SK-i-Gi cells under conditions of G6PD shRNA induction and subsequently induces conversion of NAD(+) to NADP(+) through enhanced NAD kinase activity. This may represent a compensatory mechanism to restore cellular NADPH reserve in G6PD-deficient cells. It is accompanied by alteration in pathways of cellular energy metabolism, such as glycolysis and β-oxidation.

