29119508
2018
In light of ever apparent limitation of the current dominant cancer mutation theory, a quantitative hypothesis for cancer genesis and progression, endogenous molecular-cellular network hypothesis has been proposed from the systems biology perspective, now for more than 10 years. It was intended to include both the genetic and epigenetic causes to understand cancer. Its development enters the stage of meaningful interaction with experimental and clinical data and the limitation of the traditional cancer mutation theory becomes more evident. Under this endogenous network hypothesis, we established a core working network of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) according to the hypothesis and quantified the working network by a nonlinear dynamical system. We showed that the two stable states of the working network reproduce the main known features of normal liver and HCC at both the modular and molecular levels. Using endogenous network hypothesis and validated working network, we explored genetic mutation pattern in cancer and potential strategies to cure or relieve HCC from a totally new perspective. Patterns of genetic mutations have been traditionally analyzed by posteriori statistical association approaches in light of traditional cancer mutation theory. One may wonder the possibility of a priori determination of any mutation regularity. Here, we found that based on the endogenous network theory the features of genetic mutations in cancers may be predicted without any prior knowledge of mutation propensities. Normal hepatocyte and cancerous hepatocyte stable states, specified by distinct patterns of expressions or activities of proteins in the network, provide means to directly identify a set of most probable genetic mutations and their effects in HCC. As the key proteins and main interactions in the network are conserved through cell types in an organism, similar mutational features may also be found in other cancers. This analysis yielded straightforward and testable predictions on an accumulated and preferred mutation spectrum in normal tissue. The validation of predicted cancer state mutation patterns demonstrates the usefulness and potential of a causal dynamical framework to understand and predict genetic mutations in cancer. We also obtained the following implication related to HCC therapy, (1) specific positive feedback loops are responsible for the maintenance of normal liver and HCC; (2) inhibiting proliferation and inflammation-related positive feedback loops, and simultaneously inducing liver-specific positive feedback loop is predicated as the potential strategy to cure or relieve HCC; (3) the genesis and regression of HCC is asymmetric. In light of the characteristic property of the nonlinear dynamical system, we demonstrate that positive feedback loops must be existed as a simple and general molecular basis for the maintenance of phenotypes such as normal liver and HCC, and regulating the positive feedback loops directly or indirectly provides potential strategies to cure or relieve HCC.
Adaptive landscape; Cancer therapy; Endogenous molecular-cellular network hypothesis; Genetic mutation pattern; Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC); Nonlinear stochastic dynamical system; Positive feedback loop; Stable state; Systems biology.
