29346790
2018
Local invasion of adjacent viscera by colorectal liver metastases (CRLM) is no longer considered an absolute contraindication to curative hepatic resection. A growing number of observational analyses have illustrated the feasibility of such resections; however, the evidence base is at best heterogeneous with a lack of evidence comparing similar patient groups. We aimed to evaluate the outcomes of hepatectomy for CRLM when combined with other viscera and compare to a matched cohort of isolated hepatic resections.Methods:From 2005 to 2015, 523 patients underwent hepatic resection for CRLM at our institution, 19 of whom underwent hepatectomy with extrahepatic resection. A 3: 1 matched cohort analysis was performed between those who underwent isolated hepatectomy (control group) and those who underwent hepatectomy with extrahepatic resection (combined group). Clinicopathological data were reviewed along with 30-day postoperative morbidity and mortality. Furthermore, overall survival for the multivisceral cohort was compared to all other isolated hepatectomies over the same time period.Results:Nineteen patients underwent liver resection accompanied by either/or diaphragmatic resection (n = 13), major vein resection and reconstruction (n = 5), and visceral resection (n = 3). Maximum tumor size was significantly larger in the combined group (60.58 vs. 15.34 mm p < 0.0001). Postoperative morbidity was similar in both groups (p = 0.41). Following multivisceral resection, 1-, 3- and 5-year survival rates were 75, 56.6, and 25.7% respectively. Overall survival showed no significant difference between combined and control groups (p = 0.78). Similarly, when compared to the total cohort of isolated liver resections (n = 504), no significant difference in overall mortality was noted.Conclusion:In patients presenting with concomitant CRLM and extrahepatic extension where R0 margins can be achieved, this present study supports the rationale to proceed to -surgery with comparable morbidity and mortality rates to -isolated hepatectomy.
Colorectal cancer; Diaphragm; Hepatic resection; Inferior vena cava; Liver metastases; Multivisceral resection.
