29510376
2018
Background/aims:Recently, endothelial-like cells originating directly from tumor cells have been revealed. However, the mechanism remains unclear. ETS-1 (E26 transformation specific-1), a key transcription factor in the generation and maturation of ECs (endothelial cells), has been reported to be overexpressed in several cancers. Here, we reveal novel regulation of the endothelial-like differentiation of NSCLC (non-small cell lung cancer) cells by ETS-1.Methods:We up-regulated the expression of ETS-1 in NSCLC cell lines by H2O2 or lentiviral vector. Endothelial phenotypes, such as vWF (von Willebrand factor) and VE-cadherin were examined by Western blot analysis and immunofluorescence assay. Tube formation assay and phagocytotic activity assay were performed to evaluate ECs' specific features on NSCLC cells. The effect of ETS-1 on metastasis was determined by wound healing assays, transwell assays and a xenograft tumor model. To explore the role of ETS-1 in the initiation and progression of NSCLC, we examined ETS-1 levels in NSCLC cancerous tissues and paired adjacent normal tissues by immunohistochemstry and analyzed the relationship between ETS-1 levels and clinicopathological parameters, as well as patient survival. Kaplan Meier plotter database was used to assess the prognostic value of ETS-1 in NSCLC. The association between ETS-1 levels and MVD (microvessel density) was analyzed to determine their role in angiogenesis.Results:With ETS-1 up-regulation, the expression of vWF and VE-cadherin was increased in NSCLC cells. Additionally, cells adopted several ECs' specific features, including enhanced tube formation ability and uptake of Dil-ac-LDL (acetylated low-density lipoprotein) and lectin. ETS-1 up-regulation also promoted cell migration, invasion and adhesion. In addition, xenograft mice arising from ETS-1 over-expressing cells had more liver metastases. In the clinical specimens, ETS-1 expression was significantly higher in NSCLC cancerous tissues than adjacent nontumorous tissues and positively associated with tumor size, T stage, N stage and clinical stage. Patients with high levels of ETS-1 expression had significantly poorer OS (overall survival) and FP (first progression) than those with low expression. Furthermore, there was a positive correlation between ETS-1 level and MVD.Conclusion:Collectively, our data reveal that ETS-1 can induce the differentiation of tumor cells into endothelial-like cells and further promote metastatic dissemination in NSCLC.
ETS-1; Endothelial-like cells; Metastasis; NSCLC.
