29630542
2018
Background:Gold nanoparticles (GNPs) are key diagnostic and therapeutic agents in biomedical sciences. Several studies have been carried out in different therapeutic areas such as in cancer treatment, antibacterial topical agents, imaging agents etc. There is a necessity to evaluate the gold nanoparticles cytotoxicity at all fronts. Since blood is the first point of contact in any therapy, it is required to have a thorough in vitro investigation of gold nanoparticles to avoid any adverse effects.Objective:The objective of the current study is to evaluate the effect of gold nanoparticles capped with lipase on blood clotting factors, platelets, coagulation time and blood clotting strength.Methods:Whole blood samples were drawn from healthy volunteers. Plasma and plasma with platelets were isolated from the blood and all the samples were treated with lipase capped gold nanoparticles, except control. Plasma fibrinogen formed in the blood coagulation process after contacting with nanoparticles was quantitatively evaluated. In addition, platelet aggregation, blood clotting kinetics, strength of the blood clot and time were evaluated post nanoparticle treatment.Results:The work primarily explores the effect of GNPs on blood with changing concentrations of lipase capping. Plasma fibrinogen levels of plasma samples were found to be moderately elevated, however, there is no significant effect on blood clotting kinetics, strength, and platelet aggregation. Also, the study showed that lipase capped GNPs did not result in aggregation upon interaction with plasma components and remained stable for 1 hour after incubation.Conclusions:Our study revealed that lipase capped GNPs synthesized using NaBH4 approach were stable and hemocompatible. There is an increase in fibrinogen levels after the exposure to nanoparticles, an observation which is consistent with other studies. However, the functional consequences of such increase are unknown. The results of no significant platelet aggregation, change in blood clotting time, kinetics, and clot strength revealed the non-toxic effect of lipase capped GNPs towards blood components, which is essential for any in vivo applications.
Hemocompatibility of Au nanoparticles; blood clotting; plasma fibrinogen test; platelet aggregation.
