29953997
2018
Bardoxolone methyl (CDDO-me) is a synthetic triterpenoid that has been shown to suppress various cancers and inflammation. It has been implicated for the suppression of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3)-mediated signaling, which plays crucial roles in the development and progression of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Previously, we showed that hepatitis B virus (HBV) large surface protein (LHB) variant W4P promotes carcinogenesis and tumor progression through STAT3 activation. Thus, we examined the anti-cancer activity of CDDO-me against HCC using W4P-LHB-expressing NIH3T3 cells and HepG2 and Huh7 HCC cell lines. CDDO-me exerted cytotoxic activity against W4P-LHB-expressing NIH3T3 cells, HepG2 cells, and Huh7 cells, and induced apoptotic cell death in a dose-dependent manner, demonstrating its anti-cancer activity against HCC. Sublethal concentrations of CDDO-me suppressed STAT3 activation by W4P-LHB ectopic expression and interleukin-6 treatment in W4P-LHB-NIH3T3 and Huh7 cells respectively. The suppression of STAT3 activation by CDDO-me in W4P-LHB-NIH3T3 cells was further confirmed by decreased cyclin D1 protein levels and increased p21 and p53 mRNA synthesis. In addition, CDDO-me treatment resulted in decreased cell migration and colony formation in in vitro assays using W4P-LHB-NIH3T3, HepG2, or Huh7 cell lines, supporting its anti-cancer activity through STAT3 inhibition. Furthermore, -CDDO-me administration significantly suppressed tumor growth induced by W4P-LHB-expressing NIH3T3 cells in nude mice, confirming its anti-cancer activity. Collectively, our findings demonstrated that CDDO-me is capable of suppressing STAT3 activation in HCC cells and cells transformed by the natural variant of HBV protein. The results suggest that CDDO-me can be a potential therapeutic agent against HCC, especially tumors related to HBV mutations.
Anti-tumor effect; Bardoxolone methyl; CDDO-me; Hepatitis B virus; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3.
