30284991
Sep-Oct 2018
Background:Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a primary liver malignancy and one of the most common cancers worldwide. Few studies in Saudi Arabia have compared the clinicopathologic characteristics of HCC caused by hepatitis B virus (HBV) versus hepatitis C virus (HCV) and their effect on patient survival and prognosis.Objectives:Identify differences in clinicopathological characteristics and outcomes of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) caused by HBV versus HCV.Design:A retrospective medical records review.Setting:Tertiary medical center in Riyadh.Patients and methods:We included all new cases of HCC with underlying HBV and HCV infection diagnosed between January 2013 and September 2017 that met inclusion criteria.Main outcome measures:Clinical, biochemical, pathological and radiological characteristics, and survival differences were compared between HCC that developed in HBV- and HCV-infected patients.Sample size:Of 253 patients evaluated, 172 patients were included in the study.Results:Of the 172 patients, 110 (64%) had HCV-associated HCC and 62 (36%) had HBV-associated HCC. More patients with HBV infection were males (P=.003) and were younger (P=.015) than HCV patients. HCV-infected patients who developed HCC had more advanced cirrhosis (P=.048). The prevalence of comorbidities and pre-existing cir.rhosis was similar in both groups. Seven patients (6.8%) with underlying HCV developed HCC in the absence of cirrhosis. Patients with HBV-associated HCC were less likely to meet Milan criteria at initial diagnosis than those with HCV-associated HCC (33.9% vs. 52.7%, respectively, P=.017). HBV-associated HCC occurred at a more advanced Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer stage. The overall median survival and treatment outcome for each modality was comparable.Conclusions:HBV- and HCV-associated HCC have distinct clinical and pathological characteristics, necessitating different screening policies to optimize HCC surveillance and management. However, viral etiology did not affect the treatment outcome and long-term survival.Limitations:Conducted in a single-center, retrospective and lacks information about the use of antiviral treatment.Conflict of interest:None.

