30448843
2018
Background/aims:Chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection markedly increases the risk of development of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Among the seven viral proteins that HBV encodes, HBV X protein (HBx) appears to have the most oncogenic potential. The mitochondria-associated HBx can induce oxidative stress in hepatocytes, leading to the production of abundant reactive oxygen species (ROS). High levels of ROS usually induce oxidative DNA damage and 8-hydroxy-2-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG), also known as 8-oxo-7,8-dihydro-2-deoxyguanosine (8-oxodG), which is one of the major products of DNA oxidation and an important biomarker for oxidative stress and carcinogenesis. Cells have evolved a mechanism to prevent oxidized nucleotides from their incorporation into DNA through nucleotide pool sanitization enzymes of MTH1 (NUDT1), MTH2 (NUDT15), MTH3 (NUDT18) and NUDT5. However, little is known as to whether HBx can regulate the expression of those enzymes and modulate the formation and accumulation of 8-oxodG in hepatocytes.Methods:The level of 8-oxodG was assessed by ELISA in stable HBV-producing hepatoma cell lines, an HBV infectious mouse model, HBV and HBx transgenic mice and HBV-infected patients versus their respective controls. Expression of MTH1, MTH2, MTH3 and NUDT5 was determined by a real-time quantitative PCR and western blot analysis. Transcriptional regulation of MTH1 and MTH2 expression by HBx and the effect of HBx on MTH1 and MTH2 promoter hypermethylation were examined using a luciferase reporter assay and bisulfite sequencing analysis.Results:In comparison with controls, significantly higher levels of 8-oxodG were detected in the genome and culture supernatant of stable HBV-producing HepG2.2.15 cells, in the sera and liver tissues of HBV infectious mice and HBV or HBx transgenic mice, and in the sera of HBV-infected patients. Expression of HBx in hepatocytes significantly increased 8-oxodG level and reduced the expression of MTH1 and MTH2 at both mRNA and protein levels. It was also demonstrated that HBx markedly attenuated the MTH1 or MTH2 promoter activities through hypermethylation. Furthermore, enhancement of 8-oxodG production by HBx was reversible by overexpression of MTH1 and MTH2.Conclusion:Our data show that HBx expression results in the accumulation of 8-oxodG in hepatocytes through inhibiting the expression of MTH1 and MTH2. This may implicate that HBx may act as a tumor promoter through facilitating the mutational potential of 8-oxodG thus connecting a possible link between HBV infection and liver carcinogenesis.
8-dihydro-2สน-deoxyguanosine; 8-oxo-7; Hbv X protein; MTH1 (NUDT1); MTH2 (NUDT15).
