30704985
2019
Background & aims:Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) typically arises in fibrotic or cirrhotic livers, which are characterized by pathogenic angiogenesis. Myeloid immune cells, specifically tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs), may represent potential novel therapeutic targets in HCC, complementing current ablative or immune therapies. However, the detailed functions of TAM subsets in hepatocarcinogenesis have remained obscure.Methods:TAM subsets were analyzed in-depth in human HCC samples and a combined fibrosis-HCC mouse model, established by i.p. injection with diethylnitrosamine after birth and repetitive carbon tetrachloride (CCl4) treatment for 16 weeks. Based on comprehensively phenotyping TAM subsets (fluorescence-activated cell sorter, transcriptomics) in mice, the function of CCR2+ TAM was assessed by a pharmacologic chemokine inhibitor. Angiogenesis was evaluated by contrast-enhanced micro-computed tomography and histology.Results:We show that human CCR2+ TAM accumulate at the highly vascularized HCC border and express the inflammatory marker S100A9, whereas CD163+ immune-suppressive TAM accrue in the HCC center. In the fibrosis-cancer mouse model, we identified 3 major hepatic myeloid cell populations with distinct messenger RNA profiles, of which CCR2+ TAM particularly showed activated inflammatory and angiogenic pathways. Inhibiting CCR2+ TAM infiltration using a pharmacologic chemokine CCL2 antagonist in the fibrosis-HCC model significantly reduced pathogenic vascularization and hepatic blood volume, alongside attenuated tumor volume.Conclusions:The HCC microenvironment in human patients and mice is characterized by functionally distinct macrophage populations, of which the CCR2+ inflammatory TAM subset has pro-angiogenic properties. Understanding the functional differentiation of myeloid cell subsets in chronically inflamed liver may provide novel opportunities for modulating hepatic macrophages to inhibit tumor-promoting pathogenic angiogenesis.
Angiogenesis; Chemokine; Fibrosis; HCC; Therapy; Tumor-Associated Macrophages.
