31404895
2020 Jan
Background:Hepatic, pancreas, and biliary (HPB) cancers pose serious challenges to global health care systems. These malignancies demonstrate great geographical variations with shifting trends over time. The aim of the present study was to determine the recent trends in incidence, prevalence, and mortality of primary HPB malignancies to guide the further development of effective strategies for prevention, screening, and treatment.Methods:The Global Burden of Disease (GBD) dataset 1990-2017 was interrogated for end point variables by age, sex, year, and geography. Epidemiologic data were modeled in DisMod-MR 2.1, a Bayesian meta-regression tool that pools data points from different sources and adjusts for known sources of variability. Global Burden of Disease data were extracted from 284 country-year, and 976 subnational-year combinations from 27 countries in North America, Latin America, Europe, India, and New Zealand.Results:Although the global incidence of primary HPB malignancies increased by 1.43% from 1990 to 2017 (1,400,739 cases), the incidence of extrahepatic biliary and gallbladder malignancies decreased by -0.32% (210,878 cases) over the same period. There was significant variability in the incidence, prevalence, and mortality of HPB cancers by the sociodemographic index (SDI), as well as by geography. The largest incidence increase of primary liver and pancreas cancers was seen in the high-income Asia-Pacific group, followed by the high-income North America and Western Europe groups. The highest incidences and prevalence of extrahepatic biliary and gallbladder malignancies were observed in Asia-Pacific, Southern Latin American, and Andean Latin American regions. In general, mortality rates of HPB malignancies were larger in the low SDI when compared with the high SDI group in all geographical regions.Conclusions:The global incidence and prevalence of primary liver and pancreatic malignancies continue to increase with great geographical variation. The mortality trends mirror those of the incidence. Although the global incidence and prevalence of extrahepatic biliary and gallbladder malignancies has decreased, the mortality rate has not significantly changed. The results of this article can assist local and regional authorities in policy development to improve health care access for screening, early detection, and treatment of HPB malignancies.
Cholangiocarcinoma; HCC; Incidence; Liver malignancy; Mortality; Pancreatic malignancy; Prevalence.
