31418085
2020 Jan
Objective:To investigate the performance of Liver Imaging Reporting and Data System (LI-RADS) v2017 treatment response algorithm for predicting hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) viability after locoregional therapy (LRT) using the liver explant as reference.Methods:One hundred fourteen patients with 206 HCCs who underwent liver transplantation (LT) after LRT for HCCs were included in this retrospective study. Two radiologists independently evaluated tumor viability using the LI-RADS and modified RECIST (mRECIST) with CT and MRI, respectively. The sensitivity and specificity of arterial phase hyperenhancement (APHE) and LR-TR viable criteria (any of three findings: APHE, washout, and enhancement pattern similar to pretreatment imaging) were compared using logistic regression. Receiver operating characteristics (ROC) analysis was used to compare the diagnostic performance between LI-RADS and mRECIST and between CT and MRI.Results:The sensitivity and specificity for diagnosing viable tumor were not significantly different between APHE alone and LR-TR viable criteria on CT (p = 0.054 and p = 0.317) and MRI (p = 0.093 and p = 0.603). On CT, the area under the ROC curve (AUC) of LI-RADS was significantly higher than that of mRECIST (0.733 vs. 0.657, p Conclusions:LI-RADS v2017 treatment response algorithm showed better diagnostic performance than mRECIST on CT. With LI-RADS, CT and MRI were comparable to diagnose tumor viability of HCC after LRT.Key points:• Using Liver Imaging Reporting and Data System (LI-RADS) v2017 treatment response algorithm, the viability of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) after locoregional therapy (LRT) can be accurately diagnosed. • LI-RADS v2017 treatment response algorithm is superior to modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors for evaluating HCC viability using CT. • Either CT or MRI can be performed to assess tumor viability after LRT using LI-RADS v2017 treatment response algorithm.
Hepatocellular carcinoma; Liver transplantation; Magnetic resonance imaging; Multidetector computed tomography; Therapeutic chemoembolization.
