31541681
2020 Jan
Background & aims:Hepatic resection and liver transplantation with adjuvant chemo- and radiotherapy are the mainstay of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) treatment, but the 5-year survival rate remains poor because of frequent recurrence and intrahepatic metastasis. Only sorafenib and lenvatinib are currently approved for the first-line treatment of advanced, unresected HCC, but they yield modest survival benefits. Thus, there is a need to identify new therapeutic targets to improve current HCC treatment modalities.Methods:The HCC tumor model was generated by hydrodynamic transfection of AKT1 and β-catenin (CTNNB1) oncogenes. Cancer cells with stemness properties were characterized following isolation using side population (SP) and CD44 surface markers by flow cytometry. The effect of Jak/Stat inhibitors was analyzed in vitro by using tumorsphere culture and in vivo using an allograft mouse model.Results:Co-activation of both Wnt/β-catenin and Akt/mTOR pathways was found in 14.4% of our HCC patient cohort. More importantly, these patients showed poorer survival than those with either Wnt/β-catenin or Akt/mTOR pathway activation alone, demonstrating the clinical relevance of our study. In addition, we observed that Akt/β-catenin tumors contained a subpopulation of cells with stem/progenitor-like characteristics identified through SP analysis and expression of the cancer stem cell-like marker CD44, which may contribute to tumor self-renewal and drug resistance. Consequently, we identified small molecule inhibitors of the Jak/Stat pathway that demonstrated efficacy in mitigating tumor proliferation and formation in Akt/β-catenin-driven HCC.Conclusions:In conclusion, we have shown that Akt/β-catenin tumors contain a subpopulation of tumor-initiating cells with stem/progenitor-like characteristics which can be effectively targeted with inhibitors of the Jak/Stat pathway, demonstrating that inhibition of the Jak/Stat pathway could be an alternative method to overcome drug resistance and effectively treat Akt/β-catenin-driven HCC tumors.Lay summary:The prognosis for patients with hepatocellular carcinoma is poor, partly because of the lack of effective treatment options for those with more advanced disease. In this study, we identified a subpopulation of cancer cells with stem cell-like properties that were critical for tumor maintenance and growth in a mouse model of hepatocellular carcinoma. Through further experiments, we demonstrated that the Jak/Stat pathway is a promising therapeutic target in hepatocellular carcinoma.
Akt; CD44; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Jak/Stat; Liver cancer; Side population; β-catenin.
