31562907
2020 Jan
Background & aims:Upon ligand binding, tyrosine kinase receptors, such as epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), are recruited into clathrin-coated pits for internalization by endocytosis, which is relevant for signalling and/or receptor degradation. In liver cells, transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β) induces both pro- and anti-apoptotic signals; the latter are mediated by the EGFR pathway. Since EGFR mainly traffics via clathrin-coated vesicles, we aimed to analyse the potential role of clathrin in TGF-β-induced signalling in liver cells and its relevance in liver cancer.Methods:Real-Time PCR and immunohistochemistry were used to analyse clathrin heavy-chain expression in human (CLTC) and mice (Cltc) liver tumours. Transient knockdown (siRNA) or overexpression of CLTC were used to analyse its role on TGF-β and EGFR signalling in vitro. Bioinformatic analysis was used to determine the effect of CLTC and TGFB1 expression on prognosis and overall survival in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).Results:Clathrin expression increased during liver tumorigenesis in humans and mice. CLTC knockdown cells responded to TGF-β phosphorylating SMADs (canonical signalling) but showed impairment in the anti-apoptotic signals (EGFR transactivation). Experiments of loss or gain of function in HCC cells reveal an essential role for clathrin in inhibiting TGF-β-induced apoptosis and upregulation of its pro-apoptotic target NOX4. Autocrine TGF-β signalling in invasive HCC cells upregulates CLTC expression, switching its role to pro-tumorigenic. A positive correlation between TGFB1 and CLTC was found in HCC cells and patients. Patients expressing high levels of TGFB1 and CLTC had a worse prognosis and lower overall survival.Conclusions:This work describes a novel role for clathrin in liver tumorigenesis, favouring non-canonical pro-tumorigenic TGF-β pathways. CLTC expression in human HCC samples could help select patients that would benefit from TGF-β-targeted therapy.Lay summary:Clathrin heavy-chain expression increases during liver tumorigenesis in humans (CLTC) and mice (Cltc), altering the cellular response to TGF-β in favour of anti-apoptotic/pro-tumorigenic signals. A positive correlation between TGFB1 and CLTC was found in HCC cells and patients. Patients expressing high levels of TGFB1 and CLTC had a worse prognosis and lower overall survival. CLTC expression in HCC human samples could help select patients that would benefit from therapies targeting TGF-β.
Anti-TGF-beta therapy; Cancer biology; Clathrin; EGFR; HCC; Hepatocyte; Intracellular traffic; Liver; TGF-β.
