31629818
2020 Jan 30
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the third most common cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide due to its frequent metastasis, tumor recurrence, and lack of curative treatment. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms involved in HCC progression remain unclear. Here, we analyzed the global gene expression of spontaneous liver tumor tissue from CBA/CaJ mice by RNA-Seq and identified 10,706 and 10,374 genes in the normal and liver tumor groups, respectively. Only 9793 genes were expressed in both, 913 genes were identified in only the liver tumor group, and 581 genes were found in normal liver tissues. There were 2054 differentially expressed genes (DEGs), with 975 down-regulated genes and 1079 up-regulated genes. Gene ontology (GO) term enrichment analysis showed that 43 up-regulated genes were significantly associated with cell cycle regulation and hundreds of up-regulated genes were related to cell migration, adhesion, or metabolic processes. KEGG pathway enrichment also demonstrated that some DEGs were tightly associated with the cell cycle, extracellular matrix (ECM)-receptor interactions, as well as protein digestion and absorption pathways, indicating that the activation of these oncogenic cascades was closely related to tumor liver progression in CBA/CaJ mice. Ninety-three genes with elevated expression levels preferentially localized in microtubules, kinetochores, and spindles play an important role during mitosis and meiosis and are associated with the reorganization of the cytoskeleton in cancer cells during migration and invasion. Some ECM-related genes were significantly different in the tumor group, including collagen types I, III, IV, V, and VI, non-collagenous glycoproteins, laminin, and fibronectin. We further validated the functions of upregulated genes, such as cyclin-dependent kinase 1 (CDK1) and polo-like kinase 1 (PLK1), with regards to cell cycle regulation, apoptosis, and proliferation in normal human liver or liver tumor-derived cell lines. Our results indicated that the cell cycle dysregulation, ECM-receptor interaction, and cytoskeleton-associated genes in mouse livers may promote HCC progression and deciphering the function of the genes will help investigators understand the underlying molecular mechanism of HCC.
CBA/CAJ mouse; CDK1; Cell Cycle; HCC; PLK1.
