31668943
2020 Jan
The PIK3 CA gene encodes the p110α protein subunit and is one of the most efficient cancer genes in solid and hematological tumors including hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). There are currently ongoing therapies against tumors based on PIK3 CA inhibition. Because microRNAs (miRNAs) play an important role in post-transcriptional regulation and are also involved in the inhibition of PIK3 CA expression to suppress cancer cell proliferation, overexpression of tumor-suppressive miRNA is a promising therapeutic approach for HCC therapy. The successful and localized delivery of miRNA overexpression vectors (pre-miRNA plasmids) is very important in improving the therapeutic efficacy of this miRNA therapy strategy. In the study described here, submicron acoustic phase-shifted nanodroplets were used to efficiently deliver pre-miRNA plasmid in vitro and in vivo for HCC therapy under focused ultrasound (US) activation. Briefly, six miRNAs, inhibiting PIK3 CA and downregulated in HCC, were selected through summary and analysis of the currently existing literature data. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), Western blot and cell apoptosis assay revealed that pre-miR-139, -203a, -378a and -422a plasmids among the six miRNA overexpression vectors could suppress growth of the hepatoma cell line SMMC-7721. These four pre-miRNA plasmids were then electrostatically adhered to positively charged lipid-shelled nanodroplets to obtain plasmid-loaded nanodroplets (PLNDs). The PLND-generated microbubbles oscillated and even collapsed under US exposure to release the loaded pre-miRNA plasmids and enhance their cellular uptake through consequent sonoporation, that is, formation of small pores on the cell membrane induced by the mechanical effects of PLND cavitation. Fluorescence microscopy results revealed that PLNDs could effectively deliver the aforementioned four pre-miRNA plasmids into SMMC-7721 cells in vitro under 1.2-MHz 60-cycle sinusoid US exposure with a peak negative pressure >5.5 MPa at a 40-Hz pulse repetition frequency. Plasmid delivery efficiency and cell viability positively correlated with the inertial cavitation dose that was determined mainly by peak negative pressure. Furthermore, PLNDs combined with US were evaluated in vivo to deliver these four pre-miRNAs plasmids and verify their therapeutic efficacy in subcutaneous tumor of the mouse xenograft HCC model. The results revealed that the PLNDs loaded with pre-miR-139 and -378a plasmids could effectively suppress tumor growth after US treatment. Thus, combination of pre-miRNA PLNDs with US activation seems to constitute a potential strategy for HCC therapy.
Hepatocellular carcinoma; MicroRNA; Nanodroplets; PIK3 CA; Ultrasonic cavitation; Ultrasound.
