31723025
2020 Jan 17
Alphaviruses are insect-borne viruses that alternate between replication in mosquitoes and vertebrate species. Adaptation of some alphaviruses to vertebrate hosts has involved the acquisition of an RNA structure (downstream loop [DLP]) in viral subgenomic mRNAs that confers translational resistance to protein kinase (PKR)-mediated eIF2α phosphorylation. Here, we found that, in addition to promoting eIF2-independent translation of viral subgenomic mRNAs, presence of the DLP structure also increased the resistance of alphavirus to type I interferon (IFN). Aura virus (AURAV), an ecologically isolated relative of Sindbis virus (SV) that is poorly adapted to replication in vertebrate cells, displayed a nonfunctional DLP structure and dramatic sensitivity to type I IFN. Our data suggest that an increased resistance to IFN emerged during translational adaptation of alphavirus mRNA to vertebrate hosts, reinforcing the role that double-stranded RNA (dsRNA)-activated protein kinase (PKR) plays as both a constitutive and IFN-induced antiviral effector. Interestingly, a mutant SV lacking the DLP structure (SV-ΔDLP) and AURAV both showed a marked oncotropism for certain tumor cell lines that have defects in PKR expression and/or activation. AURAV selectively replicated in and killed some cell lines derived from human hepatocarcinoma (HCC) that lacked PKR response to infection or poly(I·C) transfection. The oncolytic activities of SV-ΔDLP and AURAV were also confirmed using tumor xenografts in mice, showing tumor regression activities comparable to wild-type SV. Our data show that translation of alphavirus subgenomic mRNAs plays a central role in IFN susceptibility and cell tropism, suggesting an unanticipated oncolytic potential that some naive arboviruses may have in virotherapy.IMPORTANCE Interferons (IFNs) induce the expression of a number of antiviral genes that protect the cells of vertebrates against viruses and other microbes. The susceptibility of cells to viruses greatly depends on the level and activity of these antiviral effectors but also on the ability of viruses to counteract this antiviral response. Here, we found that the level of one of the main IFN effectors in the cell, the dsRNA-activated protein kinase (PKR), greatly determines the permissiveness of cells to alphaviruses that lack mechanisms to counteract its activation. These naive viruses also showed a hypersensitivity to IFN, suggesting that acquisition of IFN resistance (even partial) has probably been involved in expanding the host range of alphaviruses in the past. Interestingly, some of these naive viruses showed a marked oncotropism for some tumor cell lines derived from human hepatocarcinoma (HCC), opening the possibility of their use in oncolytic therapy to treat human tumors.
PKR; RNA structure; arbovirus; interferons; oncolytic viruses; translation.
