31914090
2020 Jan
Portal vein thrombosis (PVT) might impair the prognosis of cirrhotic patients. However, formation of de novo PVT after transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt (TIPS) in cirrhotic patients without preexisting PVT was rarely reported. Moreover, it is not known whether warfarin is efficient in preventing de novo PVT after TIPS. The current study aimed to investigate retrospectively the incidence and location of de novo PVT, and preventive effects of warfarin on de novo PVT after TIPS for cirrhotic patients. Patients who received TIPS placement between March 1, 2015 and March 1, 2016 in our hospital were screened retrospectively. Patients without preexisting PVT before TIPS and those who were followed up for at least 12 months were included. There were 2 groups: 1 group received warfarin (warfarin group) post-TIPS, while another group (control group) did not receive prophylactic drug to prevent PVT. Their baseline characteristics and follow-up data were retrieved. The occurrence of PVT, adverse events due to warfarin, difference in stent patency and clinical complications such as stent dysfunction, hepatic encephalopathy, mortality, liver cancer, variceal bleeding, infection, and liver failure, and results of follow-up biochemical examination were compared. Eighty-three patients without preexisting PVT were included. There were 56 patients in the control group and 27 in the warfarin group. The incidence of PVT in the warfarin group was 14.8% (4/27), whereas the incidence in the control group was 42.9% (24/56, P = .013). The location of de novo PVT was mainly at left portal vein. Adverse events due to warfarin was mostly mild, such as hemorrhinia and gingival hemorrhage. No significant difference regarding to stent patency and clinical complications between the 2 groups was found. At 24-month after-TIPS, for the remaining patients in both groups, the total bilirubin was significantly increased while the red blood cell count was significantly decreased in control group compared with those in warfarin group (P < .05). PVT could commonly occur after TIPS in patients without preexisting PVT. Warfarin could prevent PVT in these patients, and might improve patient's liver function.

