31937236
2020 Jan 14
Background:Integrating genome-wide gene expression patient profiles with regulatory knowledge is a challenging task because of the inherent heterogeneity, noise and incompleteness of biological data. From the computational side, several solvers for logic programs are able to perform extremely well in decision problems for combinatorial search domains. The challenge then is how to process the biological knowledge in order to feed these solvers to gain insights in a biological study. It requires formalizing the biological knowledge to give a precise interpretation of this information; currently, very few pathway databases offer this possibility.Results:The presented work proposes an automatic pipeline to extract automatically regulatory knowledge from pathway databases and generate novel computational predictions related to the state of expression or activity of biological molecules. We applied it in the context of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) progression, and evaluate the precision and the stability of these computational predictions. Our working base is a graph of 3383 nodes and 13,771 edges extracted from the KEGG database, in which we integrate 209 differentially expressed genes between low and high aggressive HCC across 294 patients. Our computational model predicts the shifts of expression of 146 initially non-observed biological components. Our predictions were validated at 88% using a larger experimental dataset and cross-validation techniques. In particular, we focus on the protein complexes predictions and show for the first time that NFKB1/BCL-3 complexes are activated in aggressive HCC. In spite of the large dimension of the reconstructed models, our analyses over the computational predictions discover a well constrained region where KEGG regulatory knowledge constrains gene expression of several biomolecules. These regions can offer interesting windows to perturb experimentally such complex systems.Conclusion:This new pipeline allows biologists to develop their own predictive models based on a list of genes. It facilitates the identification of new regulatory biomolecules using knowledge graphs and predictive computational methods. Our workflow is implemented in an automatic python pipeline which is publicly available at https://github.com/LokmaneChebouba/key-pipeand contains as testing data all the data used in this paper.
Data and network integration; Discrete modeling; Hepatocellular carcinoma; KEGG; Signaling and regulatory knowledge.
