31993823
2021 Jan
Background:The traditional open or laparoscopic segmentectomy of liver segment 7 (S7) requires exposing and controlling the root of the right hepatic vein(RHV)after full mobilization and lifting up of the right liver before liver transection. This approach violates the "no-touch" principle for malignant tumors, and makes laparoscopic resection technically challenging. So reports on isolated totally laparoscopic anatomic S7 segmentectomy have rarely been reported. This study describes our experience in laparoscopic anatomic S7 segmentectomy using in situ split along the right intersectoral and intersegmental planes of the liver. To our knowledge, this is the first description of this novel approach.Methods:From September 2017 to May 2019, patients who underwent laparoscopic anatomic S7 segmentectomy for hepatocellular carcinoma at the HPB Surgery Department, Sun Yat-Sen Memorial Hospital entered into this retrospective study. This in situ split approach was designed using main vessels as the plane markers of right intersectoral and intersegmental planes, along which liver transection was carried out. There was no need to mobilize the right liver and control the root of RHV.Results:There were 9 women and 15 men. The average diameter of the tumors on preoperative CT/MR was 3.4 cm (range 2-6 cm). All the procedures were successfully carried out laparoscopically. There was no perioperative death. The average operative time was 216.5 min (range 180-310 min). The average blood loss was 320 ml (range 120-620 ml). Pathological study showed all the operations to be R0 resections.Conclusion:Laparoscopic anatomic S7 segmentectomy using the in situ split approach resulted in R0 liver resection in all our patients with primary liver cancer. The operation was technically feasible and it provided a better view and increased maneuverability in the cramped operative space compared with the traditional open/laparoscopic approach. The approach also better complies with the "no-touch" principle for malignant tumors. Its long-term oncological outcomes require further studies.
Anatomical segmentectomy; Hepatocellular carcinoma; In situ split; Laparoscopic; Segment 7.
