31998364
2020 Jan 9
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the third leading cause of cancer related death worldwide with a poor prognosis. Alcoholic liver disease accounts for approximately one-third of all HCC cases. Current evidence proved that aberrant over-expression of TNFRSF12A correlates with the severity of disease, making it a likely indicator of disease a more aggressive and worse prognosis outcome. Emerging studies have confirmed that epigenetic changes are critical events in the development and progression of liver cancer. The study to investigate the mechanisms by which alcohol abuse mediated changes in the methylation level of TNFRSF12A affect the occurrence, development and prognosis of HCC were under warranted. Thus, in this study we mined two publicly available datasets to detect the association between DNA methylation level of CpG sites in gene TNFRSF12A and the development of HCC in those with alcohol abuse history. Finally, we discovered that the hypomethylation of two methylation sites-cg00510447 and cg26808293-could identify HCC from other non-HCC liver diseases. Also, hypomethylation of these two sites could identify alcoholic cirrhosis from other non-hepatocellular carcinoma liver diseases. Most important, the prognostic analysis revealed that the hypomethylation of cg00510447 and cg26808293 in HCC patients with alcohol abuse history could predict poor prognosis. Further stratified analyses by gender discovered that in male HCC patients with alcohol abuse history, hypomethylation of cg26808293 signified poor prognosis. The further mechanism analysis revealed that the DNA methyltransferases DNMT3L might regulate TNFRSF12A methylation and affect the occurrence, development and prognosis of HCC, especially in patients with a history of alcohol abuse. These findings provide new insights into the role of epigenetic mechanisms in the transformation of alcoholic liver disease into HCC.
TNFRSF12A; alcohol abuse; epigenetics; hepatocellular carcinoma; methylation; prognosis.
