32051738
2020 Jan 15
Alcohol use disorder (AUD) is an enormous public health problem that poses significant social, medical, and economic burdens. Under AUD, the liver is one of the most adversely affected organs. As current therapies and protective drugs for AUD-mediated liver injury are very limited, the prevention and therapy of alcoholic liver disease are urgently needed. The present study aims to investigate the beneficial effects of tartary buckwheat extract (TBE), the important component of Maopu tartary buckwheat liquor, on both alcoholic-induced acute and chronic liver injuries. We show that the TBE administration, similar to curcumin, significantly reduces the elevated serum aspartate aminotransferase and alanine aminotransferase levels, improves liver index, alleviates the elevated contents of hepatic malondialdehye, and restores the decreased contents of hepatic glutathione both in acute and chronic liver injuries in alcohol-exposed rats. Furthermore, histopathological analyses show that a medium dose of TBE (16.70 ml/kg body weight) alleviates hepatocyte morphology changes in both acute and chronic alcohol exposure models. We also show the protective effects of TBE on the cell death rates of alcohol-exposed primary cultured hepatocytes, HepG2 hepatoma, and Huh 7 hepatoma cells. Furthermore, we demonstrate that TBE exerts hepatoprotection partly through inhibiting the mitochondrial cell death pathway by reducing cytochrome c release, caspase-9 and -3 activities, and the number of TUNEL-positive cells. These effects of TBE were accompanied by enhanced levels of Bcl-2 and Bcl-xL and autophagic cell death pathway by reducing Beclin-1 expression, as well as through promoting its anti-oxidant capacity by suppressing reactive oxygen species production. This study demonstrates, for the first time, the protective effect of TBE against alcohol-induced acute and chronic liver injury in vivo and in vitro. Given the dietary nature of tartary buckwheat, pueraria, lycium barbarum, and hawthorn, the oral intake of TBE or liquor contained TBE, e.g., Maopu Tartary buckwheat liquor, compared with pure liquor consumption alone, may have the potential to alleviate alcoholic-induced liver injuries.
Tartary buckwheat extract (TBE); alcoholic liver injuries; mitochondrial cell death; oxidative stress.
