33068587
2021 Jan 5
Chronic alcohol assumption has been recognized as a major cause of alcoholic liver disease (ALD), which ranges from alcoholic steatohepatitis to fibrosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. Alcoholic liver disease has become the leading cause of liver-related health problem in the world. Herewith, effective therapeutic strategy for alcoholic liver disease is necessary. Yangonin (Yan), a bioactive compound extract from Kava, has been reported to exert hepatoprotective effects via Farnesoid X receptor (FXR) activation. The present study aims to investigate whether Yan ameliorated the ethanol-stimulated liver injury and further to elucidate the mechanisms in vivo and in vitro. Yan improved cell viabilities via cell count kit-8 (CCK-8) methods and obviously reduced aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), total cholesterol (TC) and total triglyceride (TG) levels. We detected miR-194 levels in ethanol-induced LO2 cells and male C57BL/6 mice by quantitative real-time PCR. Also, the effects of miR-194 on modulating cellular senescence via targeting FXR were further verified. The cellular senescence markers p16, p21, telomerase activity and senescence-related β-galactosidase (SA-β-gal) were evaluated by quantitative real-time PCR and Western blot. Also, LO2 cells or liver tissues were stained with special primary antibodies and 4',6'-Diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI). The cell cycle was detected by flow cytometry. We observed that Yan significantly inhibited ethanol-induced cellular senescence via FXR activation (P < 0.05). Our results demonstrate that Yan significantly reduced the cellular markers p16, p21 and Hmga1 expression and inhibited the cell cycle arrest (P < 0.05). MiR-194 was upregulated in the alcoholic liver disease, which was significantly suppressed by Yan (P < 0.05). Moreover, miR-194 mimic inhibited FXR expression in vitro. In summary, these aggregated data demonstrate that Yan alleviates chronic ethanol-induced liver injury through inhibition of cellular senescence via regulating miR-194/FXR axis.
Alcoholic liver disease; Cellular senescence; FXR; Yangonin; miR-194.
