30528882
2019 Apr 24
Ethnopharmacological relevance:The high recurrence rate postoperative and extensive metastases have become the obstacle of Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC) efficacy improvements, which contribute to most of the patient mortality. Akebia trifoliata (Thunb.) Koidz has been shown pharmacological activities in clinical and anti-HCC biological activity in previous research, but its potential function of anti-metastasis remains unknown.Aim of this study:To make sure whether ATKSE inhibits migration and invasion in HCC cell lines in vitro and the potential mechanism.Materials and methods:A UHPLC-HRMS analysis was adopted to identify and control the quality of the ethanol extract of Akebia trifoliata (Thunb.) Koidz Seed (abbreviated ATKSE). Cell viability of three kinds of HCC cell lines (HEPG2, HUH7, and SMMC7721) was detected using MTT assay and Flow cytometry. Adhesion capacity was measured by cell-matrigel adhesion assay. Wounded healing and Matrigel-transwell invasion assays were performed to assess cell migration and invasion, respectively. Western blot assay was used to detect several metastasis-related protein molecules, including FAK adhesion signaling, cadherin molecules, and MMPs. ELISA assay was used to evaluate the secreted MMP9 level.Results:ATKSE significantly suppressed HCC cells viability and proliferation (from 0.9 up to 3.0 mg/ml); then under sub-lethal concentration (from 0.25 up to 1.0 mg/ml), ATKSE inhibited cell adhesion, migration, and invasion in a way of dose-dependent. Several metastatic-related molecules or pathway, including FAK adhesion signaling, cadherin molecules, and MMPs, took part in this process. There are both differences and commonalities in various cell lines: typically such as p-FAK was down-regulated by ATKSE in both HEPG2 and SMMC7721, while was raised in HUH7; Further attempts on the combination of ATKSE and FAK inhibitors, provide us with the enhanced inhibitory effects of invasion and migration in HEPG2 and HUH7 cells, as well as antagonistic effects in SMMC7721. As a target or potential mechanism, it may be more valuable to concern FAK inhibition by ATKSE in HEPG2 cells than in the other two cells.Conclusions:These results suggest that ATKSE has anti-metastasis potency in HCC cells.
Adhesion; Akebia trifoliata (Thunb.) Koidz Seed Extract; Human hepatocellular carcinoma; Invasion; Metastasis; Migration.
