30939738
2019 Apr 1
Connexins regulate multiple cellular functions and are considered tumor suppressors. Connexin43 (Cx43) is frequently down-regulated in breast tumors. However, Cx43 regulation during cancer onset and metastasis is complex and context-dependent. We investigated the effect of Cx43 over-expression or knock-down on the metastatic potential of MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cells in vitro and in vivo and in human breast cancer tissues. MDA-MB-231 cells over-expressing (Cx43D) or down-regulating Cx43 (shCx43) were generated and used in proliferation, migration, and invasion assays. The regulation of genes/proteins implicated in progression, invasion and metastasis was assessed in vitro and in immune-compromized mice injected with MDA-MB-231, Cx43D or shCx43 cells. Primary tumor onset/growth, metastasis and overall survival of these animals was monitored and evaluated. In addition, Cx43 expression in human breast carcinoma samples was assessed by qPCR. Cx43 over-expression increased protein levels of epithelial markers E-cadherin and zonula occludens 1 expression and resulted in the sequestration of β-catenin at the cell membrane, while Cx43 knock-down induced protein expression of the mesenchymal marker N-cadherin and an increased invasive potential of shCx43 cells. In vivo, in mice xenografted with breast cancer cells, Cx43 over-expression decreased tumor volume, attenuated cell metastasis to lungs and liver and increased overall mice survival. Importantly, the expression of Cx43 in triple negative human breast cancer tissues is also down-regulated. Collectively, Cx43 over-expression induced an epithelial-like phenotype in MDA-MB-231 cells and suppressed tumor growth and metastasis to secondary organs in vivo. In contrast, Cx43 knock-down in MDA-MB-231 cells induced a mesenchymal phenotype with increased cell invasion leading to an enhanced metastatic phenotype. These data provide evidence for a pivotal role of Cx43 in breast cancer metastasis and support the potential targeting of connexins in breast cancer therapy.
EMT; breast cancer; connexin43; epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition; metastasis; triple negative breast cancer.
