30999947
2019 Apr 18
Background:Our aim of the study is to investigate the feasibility of preoperative prediction for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) histological grading using gadoxetic acid-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).Methods:This study included one hundred and fifty-six patients with solitary HCC. Preoperative gadoxetic acid-enhanced MRI findings were retrospectively analyzed. MRI qualitative features such as tumor size, margin, capsule status, signal homogeneity, intratumoral vessels, peritumoral enhancement during mid-arterial phase, peritumoral hypointensity during the hepatobiliary phase (HBP) were investigated. Apparent diffusion coefficients (ADCs), T1 reduction ratio of pre- and post-contrast enhanced images of the tumors were calculated. HCC histological grading in surgical specimens were confirmed by Edmonson's criteria. Correlations between these MRI features and HCC histological grading were analyzed using multivariate logistic regression. The receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve was used to assess the predictive efficacy of the model.Results:Univariate analysis showed that maximum tumor diameter (p = 0.004), tumor margin (p = 0.006), intratumoral vessels (p = 0.001) and peritumoral hypointensity during HBP (p = 0.000), were significantly correlated with HCC histological grading. There was no relationship between capsule, tumor signal, venous thrombosis, peritumoral enhancement during mid-arterial phase, ADC value, T1 reduction ratio, and HCC histological grading. Multivariate logistic regression analysis demonstrated that the maximum tumor diameter (p = 0.012, odds ratio = 1.002, 95% confidence interval: 1.007-1.046)) was an independent risk factor for high grade HCC.Conclusions:Greater tumor size, a more irregular margin, presence of intratumoral vessels, and peritumoral hypointensity during HBP were indicators for high grade HCC. The maximum tumor diameter was an independent risk factor for high grade HCC.
Gadoxetic acid; HCC; Histological grade; MRI.
