31060164
2019 Apr 23
Objective: To investigate the effect of estrogen level on Budd Chiari syndrome related hepatocellular carcinoma. Methods: Immunohistochemical method was used to detect estrogen receptor-α and estrogen receptor-β expression in 38 cases of Budd Chiari syndrome related hepatocellular carcinoma and 50 cases of HBV related hepatocellular carcinoma.Hepatoma cells of Budd Chiari syndrome related hepatocellular carcinoma were exposed to different concentrations of Estrogen for 48 hours. Tetrazolium bromide (MTT) colorimetry was used to analyze cell proliferation activities; cell cycle was analyzed by flow cytometry (FCM); cell apoptosis was analyzed by flow cytometry (FCM) and Casepase-3 activity was measured after induced by adriamycin(ADM). Results: The positive rate of estrogen receptor-α expression in the tissues of Budd Chiari syndrome related hepatocellular carcinoma was 71.05%, which was higher than that (32%)in HBV related hepatocellular carcinoma tissue evidently (P<0.01). The positive rate of estrogen receptor-β expression in the tissues of Budd Chiari syndrome related hepatocellular carcinoma was 68.4%, which was higher than that (26%)in HBV related hepatocellular carcinoma tissue evidently (P<0.01). With the concentrations of estrogen increasing, MTT Assays showed that estrogen level increased the cell proliferation activities of Budd Chiari syndrome related hepatocellular carcinoma. The number of cells at stage S and G2/M were significantly increased and cells at stage G0/G1 were reduced with the increasing concentrations of estrogen. After being incubated under the different concentrations of estrogen for 48 h, the apoptosis rates decreased gradually and the Casepase-3 activity was significantly reduced with the increasing concentration of estrogen. Conclusions: Estrogenreceptor expression may have an important influence on hepatocellular carcinoma cell biology difference between Budd Chiari syndrome related hepatocellular carcinoma and HBV related hepatocellular carcinoma. Estrogen level can promote cell proliferation and cell cycle, and inhibit the apoptosis of hepatoma cells of Budd Chiari syndrome related hepatocellular carcinoma in vitro, and these effects were increased with the increasing of estrogen level.
Budd Chiari syndrome related hepatocellular carcinoma; Cell apoptosis; Cell proliferation; Estrogen.
