31086466
2019 Apr 28
Background:Regional lymph node metastasis in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is not uncommon, and is often under- or misdiagnosed. Regional lymph node metastasis is associated with a negative prognosis in patients with HCC, and surgical resection of lymph node metastasis is considered feasible and efficacious in improving the survival and prognosis. It is critical to characterize lymph node preoperatively. There is currently no consensus regarding the optimal method for the assessment of regional lymph nodes in patients with HCC.Aim:To evaluate the diagnostic value of single source dual energy computed tomography (CT) in regional lymph node assessment for HCC patients.Methods:Forty-three patients with pathologically confirmed HCC who underwent partial hepatectomy with lymphadenectomy were retrospectively enrolled. All patients underwent dual-energy CT preoperatively. Regional lymph nodes (n = 156) were divided into either a metastatic (group P, n = 52) or a non-metastasis group (group N, n = 104), and further, according to pathology, divided into an active hepatitis (group P1, n = 34; group N1, n = 73) and a non-active hepatitis group (group P2, n = 18; group N2, n = 31). The maximal short axis diameter (MSAD), iodine concentration (IC), normalized IC (NIC), and the slope of the spectral curve (λ HU) of each group in the arterial phase (AP), portal phase (PP), and delayed phase (DP) were analyzed.Results:Analysis of the MSAD, IC, NIC, and λ HU showed statistical differences between groups P and N (P < 0.05) during all three phases. To distinguish benign from metastatic lymph nodes, the diagnostic efficacy of IC, NIC, and λ HU in the PP was the best among the three phases (AP, PP, and DP), with a sensitivity up to 81.9%, 83.9%, and 81.8%, and a specificity up to 82.4%, 84.1% and 84.1%, respectively. The diagnostic value of combined analyses of MSAD with IC, NIC, or λ HU in the PP was superior to the dual energy CT parameters alone, with a sensitivity up to 84.5%, 86.9%, and 86.2%, and a specificity up to 83.0%, 93.6% and 89.8%, respectively. Between groups P1 and P2 and groups N1 and N2, only IC, NIC, and λ HU between groups N1 and N2 in the PP had a statistically significant difference (P < 0.05).Conclusion:Dual-energy CT contributes beneficially to regional lymph node assessment in HCC patients. Combination of MSAD with IC, NIC, or λ HU values in the PP is superior to using any single parameter alone. Active hepatitis does not deteriorate the capabilities for characterization of metastatic lymph nodes.
Computed tomography; Dual energy; Hepatitis; Hepatocellular carcinoma; Lymph node; Metastasis.
