28540784
2017 Nov
Background and aims:Associating liver partition and portal vein ligation for staged hepatectomy (ALPPS) has high morbidity and mortality. In this study, the safety and efficacy of a modification of ALPPS (radiofrequency-assisted ALPPS, RALPPS) were assessed in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).Materials and methods:Patients who were diagnosed with HCC and were considered to have an insufficient future liver remnant (FLR) were enrolled. In stage I, a radiofrequency ablation (RFA) device was used to cauterise along the planned transection plane to form a coagulum avascular area. When the FLR reached above 40%, hepatectomy was performed in stage II along the coagulum area established previously. After two stages, operative morbidity, mortality, per cent increase in FLR, operative time and blood loss were evaluated.Results:Between July 2014 and September 2015, 10 patients with HCC (9 with hepatitis-related cirrhosis) were treated with the RALPPS procedure. The incidence of severe complications (Clavien-Dindo ≥ IIIb) was 20% (2/10). One patient died. No biliary leakage, intraperitoneal infection or post-hepatectomy liver failure (PHLF) occurred after both stages. The median FLR before stage I was 31% (364 ml). This increased to 47% (632 ml) before stage II after a median interval of 28 days. The median percentage increase in FLR was 53% (210 ml). Additionally, the median operative time during the first and second stages was 214 and 281 min, respectively. The corresponding median blood loss was 200 and 550 ml, respectively.Conclusions:RALPPS has a potential advantage in eliminating serious complications of biliary leakage and PHLF associated with classic ALPPS. On the basis of rigorous patient selection criteria, RALPPS may achieve the same effect of promoting significant growth of the FLR in patients with cirrhosis-related HCC and insufficient FLR volume, albeit at the cost of a longer interval time.
Hepatocellular carcinoma; associating liver partition and portal vein ligation for staged hepatectomy; cirrhosis; radiofrequency ablation.
