28964928
2017 Nov
Supplements with estrogenic activities are intensively investigated as potential alternatives for the treatment of menopausal symptoms. These investigations include studies on their safety regarding potential breast cancer risks. Therefore, the aim of this study was to assess whether or not a standardized hops (Humulus lupulus) extract, containing 0.42% of the estrogenic flavanone, 8-prenylnaringenin, would stimulate growth of methyl-nitrosourea (MNU) induced mammary cancer in ovariectomized (OVX) Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats or would impact on the proliferative activity within the normal mammary gland of Wistar rats. To induce tumorigenesis SD-rats received an intraperitoneal injection of 50mg/kg body weight of MNU on postnatal days PND 50 and 52. 28days later animals were OVX or were SHAM operated (positive control) and randomly allocated and maintained for 140days on either a phytoestrogen-free placebo diet (SHAM and negative control) or on the hops fortified diet. For the investigations in the normal mammary gland young adult Wistar rats were bilaterally OVX and randomly allocated to a control group fed to a phytoestrogen-free diet, or to a diet supplemented either with E2-benzoate or the hops extract. As a major result, the tumor incidence was 15% (3 tumors totally) in OVX controls, whereas it was 85% (39 tumors totally) in SHAM operated positive controls. No tumors were detectable in the hops group. In addition, no estrogenic activity of the hops extract was detectable in uterus and liver of these animals. In investigations on the normal mammary gland, no impact of hops extract on the expression of estrogen dependent proliferation markers or of progesterone receptor became apparent. In conclusion, the lack of growth stimulation of MNU-induced breast cancer in OVX SD-rats and the lack of stimulation proliferative events in the normal mammary gland of OVX Wistar rats by standardized hops extracts provides an important piece of evidence regarding the safety of these extracts in the management of menopausal symptoms.
Breast cancer; Estrogenicity; Hops extract; Mammary gland; Menopause.
