29075488
2017 Nov
Mucinous tubular and spindle cell carcinoma (MTSCC) is a relatively rare renal epithelial neoplasm. Although MTSCC is considered to be a low-grade and indolent neoplasm, aggressive cases have been recently reported. The present study discussed two additional cases of high-grade MTSCC causing multiple distant metastases with a fatal course. In case 1, a 71-year-old patient presented with hematuria and pyuria. Computed tomography (CT) scan of the right kidney revealed a mass lesion, for which partial nephrectomy was performed. However, a follow-up CT imaging revealed distant metastases in the liver, the paraaortic lymph nodes and the bone. Despite molecular targeted therapy and irradiation, the patient succumbed due to tumor progression. In case 2, a 64-year-old patient presented with an incidentally identified mass lesion in the right kidney. A laparoscopic nephrectomy was performed, and a follow-up CT imaging revealed metastases in the skin and lungs. The cytology of pleural effusion revealed pleuritis carcinomatosa. Histologically, both cases were diagnosed as mucin-poor MTSCC with high-grade transformation, which comprised uniform tumor cells primarily forming slender tubules. The tumors contained low- and high-grade regions. In addition, venous invasion and necrosis were observed. The tumor cells also demonstrated increased Ki-67 labeling indices and cellular tumor antigen p53 (p53) nuclear accumulation. High-grade transformation, large tumor size, necrosis, venous invasion, high Ki-67 labeling index and p53 nuclear accumulation are generally predictive findings for aggressive behavior of malignant tumors. In the current report, it was emphasized that MTSCC possesses a wide spectrum of clinicopathological features. Thus, careful postoperative investigation is required for MTSCC with high-grade elements due to its aggressive nature.
distant metastasis; high-grade transformation; kidney; mucin-poor type; mucinous tubular and spindle cell carcinoma.
