29275583
2017 Nov 28
Objective: To explore the effects of oxycodone combined with dexmedetomidine in percutaneous ultrasound-guided radiofrequency ablation of hepatocellular carcinomas. Methods: Sixty patients who underwent percutaneous ultrasound-guided radiofrequency ablation of hepatocellular carcinomas were randomly divided into fentanyl group (group A) and oxycodone group( group B), with 30 patients in each group. Patients in group A were injected with fentanyl (2 μg/kg), and patients in group B were injected with oxycodone (0.2 mg/kg). All the patients were injected with dexmedetomidine, with a loading dose of 0.5 μg/kg for 10 minutes and a continuous infusion rate of 0.2 μg·kg(-1)·h(-1) until the end of the operation. The changes of heart rate (HR), mean arterial pressure (MAP), pulse oxygen saturation (SPO(2)) and bispectral index (BIS) were monitored at different time points: time when patients entering the operating room (T0), the beginning of operation (T1), 10 minutes after operation (T2), the end of operation (T3), 15 minutes after the end of operation (T4). The incidence of side effects (nausea and vomiting, respiratory depression and body movements) was assessed. The visual analogue scale (VAS) scores were also recorded at T0, T3 and an hour postoperatively. Results: Five patients of Group A had the body movements during the operation, and it was improved after injecting with fentanyl 2 μg/kg. Compared with T0, HR in two groups decreased significantly at T2 (P<0.05). At each time point, the difference of MAP, HR, SPO(2) and BIS was not statistically significant in two groups. The incidence of Nausea and vomiting, body movements was lower in group B than that in group A(P<0.05). The VAS scores were lower in group B than that in group A at T3 and an hour postoperatively (P<0.05). Conclusion: The combination of oxycodone and dexmedetomidine can be used safely and effectively in percutaneous ultrasound-guided radiofrequency ablation of hepatocellular carcinomas, and it shows more effective analgesia and less side-effects.
Dexmedetomidine; Hepatocellular carcinomas; Oxycodone; Radiofrequency ablation; Ultrasound.
