29578192
2017 Nov
Background & objective:It has been shown that the combined use of alcohol before radiofrequency ablation (RFA) helps to augment the therapeutic advantage of RFA. The present study was conducted to compare the outcome of treatment with RFA alone and RFA with alcohol as ablative technique in patients with small hepatocellular carcinomas (HCCs), who were not candidates for surgery.Methods:Fifty patients with chronic liver disease and concurrent HCC were enrolled in this prospective study. The patients were treated with either RFA alone (n=25) or RFA combined with alcohol (n=25). Patient outcome was evaluated, and the tumour recurrence and survival of the patients were assessed in the two groups.Results:The survival rates at six months in patients who completed at least six months of follow up were 84 and 80 per cent in patients treated with RFA alone and combination therapy, respectively. During the follow up period, 11 and four patients treated with RFA alone showed local and distant intrahepatic tumour recurrence, respectively. All local recurrences were at one to 18 months of the follow up period. The distant recurrences occurred at 6-36 months of the follow up period. During the follow up period, eight and six patients treated with combination therapy showed local and distant intrahepatic tumour recurrence, respectively. All local recurrences were at 1.5-15 months during the follow up period. The distant intrahepatic recurrences occurred at 6-72 months during the follow up period.Interpretation & conclusions:No significant difference was seen between the survival time of the patients treated with RFA alone and RFA with alcohol as well as in the local recurrences and distant intrahepatic recurrences in RFA compared to RFA and alcohol group patients. Combined use of RFA and alcohol did not improve the local tumour control and survival in patients with HCC compared to RFA alone.
Alcohol - hepatocellular carcinomas - outcome - radiofrequency ablation - survival.
