27123081
2016 May
The aim of the present study was to investigate the selective killing effect on hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cells of an adenovirus (Ad)-mediated cytosine deaminase (CD) in combination with thymidine kinase (TK) suicide gene system, driven by the vascular endothelial growth factor promoter (VEGFp), in vitro and in vivo. A double suicide gene system with VEGFp, named Ad-VEGFp-CDglyTK, was constructed and transfected into human HCC cells (BEL-7402 or HepG2; the latter cell type is deficient in VEGF) and human umbilical vein vascular endothelial cells (HUVEC). Green fluorescent protein expression was detected by fluoroscopy to verify transfection efficiency, and CDglyTK gene expression was detected by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (PCR). The selective killing effect of Ad-VEGFp-CDglyTK was measured by 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide assay and flow cytometry (FCM) in vitro and by xenograft studies in vivo. PCR revealed that the transgenic CDglyTK gene was expressed in BEL-7402 cells and HUVEC, but not in HepG2 cells. The cell survival rate significantly decreased in line with increasing concentrations of the prodrugs, ganciclovir (GCV) alone, 5-fluorocytosine (5-FC) alone or a combination of the two, in HUVEC and BEL-7402 cells with the transfected CDglyTK gene, but not in untransfected HUVEC or BEL-7402 cells, or in transfected or untransfected HepG2 cells. This result was additionally confirmed by FCM. GCV and 5-FC inhibited the HUVEC and BEL-7402 cells containing the transfected CDglyTK gene and also inhibited adjacent unmodified cells via the 'bystander effect'. No similar results were observed in HepG2 cells. Compared with the control group, tumors with the transfected CDglyTK gene were smaller and the microvessel density of the tumor tissue was significantly decreased. It was concluded that a combination TK/GCV and CD/5-FC suicide gene system driven by VEGFp may provide a promising treatment strategy for HCC.
cytosine deaminase/ganciclovir; hepatocellular carcinoma; suicide gene; thymidine kinase/5-fluorocytosine; vascular endothelial growth factor.
